7. Honor Mode / Dark Urge Only - Act 1
Links to different sections of this guide covering the first part of Act 1:
● Prologue
● Day 1 - Druid Grove
● Day 2 - Blighted Village, Paladins of Tyr, and Harpies
● Day 3 - Gnolls and Owlbear
● Day 4 - Swamp and Druids
● Day 5 - Goblin Camp
● Day 6 - Underdark
● Day 7 - Grymforge
● Day 8 - Mountain Pass
Character Creation
As soon as you start your save file you will be prompted to select your difficulty. For this
playthrough you'll want to pick "Honor Mode". This guide will focus on a Paladin as they benefit
from a high Charisma score, which also bolsters Intimidation, Persuasion, and Deception skills. If
you're following the guide from the previous sections, the same character builds and strategies
will be used. On Honor mode enemies will be stronger, bosses will have unique abilities, you are
limited to one save slot, and most importantly if your entire party dies it is game over. I highly
recommend syncing your Xbox account to the Larian Network as I think that makes it easier to
force Cloud saves. If everyone does die, immediately quit out and you should be at your last
autosave, losing however much progress. Not as bad as starting from scratch. Here are the
selections you should make when building your character:
● Origin: The Dark Urge
● Race: Tiefling
● Subrace: Zariel Tiefling
● Class: Paladin
● Subclass: Vengeance
● Background: Haunted One
● Abilities:
○ Strength - 16 (+1 bonus added)
○ Dexterity - 10
○ Constitution - 14
○ Intelligence - 8
○ Wisdom - 10
○ Charisma - 16 (+2 bonus added)
● Skills:
○ Athletics
○ Persuasion
Spend as much time as you want customizing the looks of both your character and Guardian. For
the sake of guide, I will refer to your character as the base name - Tav. As a reminder, this

section of the walkthrough will only cover four achievements! The two Dark Urge Origin and
the two difficulty related achievements. Once you're good to go, let's get the Prologue
underway.
Prologue
As a general rule of thumb, loot everything that isn't bolted down. Things are more expensive on
this difficulty, so every piece of gold counts in the early game. After awaking from the chaos
around us, make sure to do a looting pass in this room. If you go towards the back of the room,
behind where you spawned you'll see a ramp taking you up a level. Here will be some stuff on a
table as well as a chest at the end of the pathway. After looting theCartilaginous Chest, pick it
up. There are three of these that we need to pick up. Make your way back down to where you
spawned and loot the Mind Flayer corpse in front of you. Immediately to the left side there is
another ramp you can walk up for another Cartilaginous Chest. Pick up this one as well. That's it
for this room, so make your way through the door. Off to the immediate right will be a corpse for
you to loot. Use the elevator platform in the center of the room to go up a level. Interact with the
talking corpse and we may be able to recruit a little friend simply named "Us". It's worth using a
quick safety save here. Don't destroy the brain, but try to help it. If you do the [Investigation]
check and pass it, it will give you Advantage on the subsequent[Medicine] check option. For any
dialogue options that involve a skill check, you can easily tell what gives you the best bonus.
Choose whatever can give you the highest roll and if you succeed, make sure not to mutilate
"Us" as it's going to come in handy. If you don't take "Us", that's not a game ender. There's
nothing else of note in this room, so move along until you get a cutscene and meetLae'zel.
Dialogue choices don't matter and you'll be thrown into your first combat encounter. Nothing
scary here, especially with "Us" at our side. Loot all of the bodies, recover at the blue healing
station if you need to, and progress forward.
In the next room you'll see another companion,Shadowheart, still stuck in the Mind Flayer pod.
In order to save her progress into the room to your east. At this point you'll see an Intellect
Devourerrunning around, but I would recommend not attacking it if you have "Us" present. You
could risk turning "Us" against the party. In the next room there is a dead thrall body holding a
key, and another one at the end of the room with a rune, grab both. At the end of the room is the
last Cartilaginous Chest, so make sure to pick that up. With the rune in hand, you can interact
with the console next toShadowheart to set her free. Speak to her on the ground and recruit her
to the party. Now do a loot pass around this room. The other key that we got opens the container
on the desk. Next to the pod that Shadowheart was in there is a glowing purple tank labeled
Nautiloid Tank, pick it up. This is actually an explosive tank and we'll be looting as many
explosives containers as possible in this playthrough to simplify certain fights. Before we move
on to the last room and a major encounter, take control of Shadowheart and open her Spellbook.
We'll want to make sure the following spells are prepared:
● Cure Wounds
● Bless
● Command

● Command
● Sanctuary
Command will especially be helpful in the upcoming battle. Once you're sorted, move along
through the door you haven't opened yet to find one last healing blue console. Avoid the fire on
the ground, walk into the next hallway, and enter the final room to start the last fight. Eventually
enemy reinforcements will appear from behind us, but we'll block them off in this hallway. Select
one of the chests you picked up and place it in the middle of the doorway behind you. We want
to stack all three to completely block the passage. Here's a video showing the positioning:
Once you're ready, move through the door to trigger the final battle of the Prologue. The main
strategy here is we're going to have Shadowheart useCommand: Drop on Commander Zhalk to
get him to drop his weapon with someone swooping in to pick it up. You have two shots at doing
this and the chance of success is 55%. With how strong of an early game weapon this is, if
you're unlucky and fail both times it might just be best to just reset. Also any spell slots you
expend during this fight will be replenished afterwards. During the first turn clear out the
enemies right in front of you and have Shadowheart/Laezel push forward. I kept Tav back to
handle the body looting and more importantly picking up the three Nautiloid Tanks nearby. If you
start to become encumbered you can give them to someone else. Personally I gave them to
Shadowheart since she's the first Companion we properly recruit. The bodies don't really have
anything of note, so I would focus picking up the tanks first.

During round 2 use Command: Drop onCommander Zhalk and if it works have Lae'zel useDash
to run in and pick it up his weapon. Now he's drastically less threatening. You'll then want to give
that weapon to Tav to use. Now the choice is yours, kill the commander and Mind Flayer, or just
back a break for the console in the back. Killing them would net you some extra early game
experience. I recommended blocking the path off to prevent the reinforcements to give you the
freedom to choose without backing yourself into a corner. You have until the turn countdown
finishes to interact with the console in the back of the room. Failure to do so will result in a full
party wipe. There will be a few lesser demons in your way, but if you're pressed for time you can
use your Dash ability to gain more movement and run past them. If you managed to recruit "Us"
and they survive this fight, you'll run into it again later in Act 2. Make your way to the end of the
room and have a character interact with the console to safely end the Prologue.
Day 1
Since resource management is a pretty big thing in this game, at the start of each day I'll
highlight what the planned combat encounters are and when Short or Long Rests will be used.
That way you can use your abilities without worrying about backing yourself into a corner. I
highly recommend to follow this pacing as much as possible so you don't accidentally start a
fight that could pose a risk to your playthrough before it is necessary.
● Wake up on beach
○ Intellect Devourers (x3)
○ Ruin Bandits (x6)
● Short Rest
○ Ruin Undead (x5)
● Short Rest
○ Goblins attacking the Druid Grove (x8)
○ Bugbear Assassin
○ Goblins in the tunnel (x4)
After waking up on the beach, start to move forward. Our top priority will be to assemble a team
of four. Soon enough you'll see Shadowheartunconscious. Interact with her to wake her up and
have her join you. Move along the coastline and collect all the loot. Eventually you'll make it to a
locked door and the "Overgrown Ruins" waypoint on a nearby rock. Up the hill you'll see the
crashed Nautiloid ship with some Intellect Devourersnearby. On Honor mode doing this
encounter with just two people (even if you're level 2) would be a run ender. They have a ranged
attack that could potentially one shot. Fortunately you can traverse the nearby cliffside up to a
ridge (end of it has a chest) and you can continue to jump up to the top. Here is a clip on how to
get up the cliff without triggering combat:

At this point I recommend saving or forcing a cloud save as saving Gale is crucial to our
playthrough. When given dialogue options, choose the Strengthoption. If you don't save Gale
here, you won't be able to recruit him. As you progress, try to set aside some magical (green
quality) gear to eventually feed Gale to help with his affliction. You'll need three of these items in
total to keep him stable. Head up the hill to the north and you'll run into two Tieflings that have
Lae'zel trapped. Our best chance of getting them to leave peacefully would be the [Paladin]
[Deception] option, but all we really care about is getting Lae'zel out alive.
Once the Tieflings are out sight, free Lae'zel by shooting the floor of the trap. Fast travel back to
the"Roadside Cliffs" waypoint. Walk along the road to the west. A bit after the dead goblins there
will be a split in the path. Make a slight detour up the steps to the right and remove the fire
terrain with Gale'sRay of Frost cantrip. Move up the path ahead of you until you see a shovel in a
dirt mound. You can take the shovel and dig up some treasure. Someone in your party will
comment on hearing shouting up ahead, but we don't want to investigate that just yet. Make your
way back to that fork in the path and traverse into the wreckage. Go through and attack the
injured Mind Flayer that is under some rubble. You can never say no to a free kill and experience.
Proceed forward to make it outside and you'll come across Astarion. Handle the interaction
nicely and recruit him when you have the chance. It doesn't really matter if you recruit him or not,
mostly just here for the easy experience. You should also be level 2 at this point, so go ahead
and level up.
Level 2

Now that Tav is level 2, open your character sheet and go to the "Reactions" tab. Here you want
to enable Divine Smite on all attack options, but make sure it asks you before use. You can add

<<TABLE>>
Level 2
  Tav
  Fighting Style: • Great Weapon Fighting
  Spellbook: • Wrathful Smite • Thunderous Smite • Searing Smite • Cure Wounds • Command
<</TABLE>>

that function by hitting
on each option you want it for. You'll know it's active if there's a chat bubble icon on the ability
listing. What this does is the game asks you if you want to expand a Spell Slot to add aDivine
Smite attack on top of your successful attack, which can be very handy to finish off an enemy or
do some insane burst damage. If you basic attack is a critical hit, then the added smite attack will
also be a critical hit! This gives you better control over where and when your Spell Slots are used
up compared to the default settings. Now would also be a good time to cast use Gale and cast
Mage Armor on himself.
Continue east back into the wreckage and you'll see that you can now ambush those Intellect
Devourersthat we avoided at the start of the beach. With a full party at level 2, enter Hide Party
mode and launch a surprise attack. This causes your party to crouch, rendering them harder to
detect, with the added bonus of you being able to see the detection range of any nearby
creature. These enemies do move around, so as you get close enter Turn-Based mode to
prevent a last second movement catching you off guard. One of them may be on a purple
substance (which is flammable) next to one of thoseNautiloid Tanks. Try to dispatch it without
using fire so you can claim that tank. After dealing with the enemies, loot the nearby chest and
bodies. Go back to the "Roadside Cliffs" waypoint and make your way east towards the ruins. Go
through the chapel entrance to start a conversation. If you use the [Paladin][Intimidation] option
you can then add the Thaumaturgy modifier to get two dice being rolled. This is the main reason
we picked being Tiefling ourselves. We'll be doing this a lot, so don't forget you have this bonus
to add along with Shadowheart's Guidance. You should be able to make it through this
conversation with no issues.
Be wary of the cracked floor here! Make sure not to run into it as that would spoil the ambush
that we could set up. Look above and attack the"Foundation Block" hanging to knock it down,
creating a hole you traverse down. Before proceeding, do a quick loot pass of the ruins around
you. When you're ready to delve into the ruins, I recommend turning on Turn-Based mode. Use
to enter cursor mode, hover your camera directly over the hole, and direct Tav to go inside. Your
whole party should appear within the ruins where we can ambush some raiders. Here is a clip on
how to set this up:

After going down the hole, there is a desk in the corner of the room that you can move to block
the door. Do that and move your characters to the edge of the room up against the same wall the
door is on. Two on each side works best as we want to tuck them in the corner so they don't get
detected. End your turn and bandits should open the door and stack in the entryway. Since we
blocked it with a desk though, they stop right there. Now you can have Gale or Shadowheart
throw a Fire Bolt at the nearby Oil Barrel that they all just happen to be standing next to. They
should be surprised and you can let loose the attacks. Stay in the room and use either Lae'zel or
Tav to block the doorway. After dispatching the enemies, make sure to loot their bodies. On the
off chance something went wrong and you didn't get the surprise attack, I'll budget aShort Rest
to be used here to heal your party up here. There are two rooms you can investigate and we want
to go north first. If they weren't alerted during the previous encounter, there is a lone enemy you
can ambush here. Do a loot pass around the room as there's a good portion of camping supplies
that'll be handy. Once you're done with this room, make your way to the south. On the southern
edge of the room there will be a switch you can discover that will unlock a locked door you
walked past. Once you're good to move to the next area, go through the passage leading you
west.
After doing a looting pass in the initial room split Tav off from the rest of the group. You'll be
venturing into the southern room by yourself. Do not interact with the central sarcophagus until
you're done with the room, it is trapped. Do a loop around looting everything but the central
sarcophagus. One of these side sarcophaguses holds a Soul Coin that you definitely want to get

for future use. Once you're done, go ahead and stand next to the centralsarcophagus. Turn on
Turn-Based mode and open it without bothering to disarm the traps. Use Dash to run out of the
room and watch out for the grease on the floor as you approach the doorway. End your turn and
enjoy the fireworks. That central sarcophagus should have given you a key to open the northern
room. There will be a handful of skeleton corpses you can loot, but take mind of where they are
as they'll soon come to life and attack you. With your group of three, park them in south eastern
corner of this room, next to a chest. Make sure they're crouched. With our solo Tav (or Lae'zel if
you want), make your way up into the little courtyard and go up the left set of stairs. A button
should be revealed. If not, bring the others up to see if they can trigger the reveal before getting
back into position. Before clicking it, make sure everyone is crouched and in the appropriate
location, then turn Turn-Based mode back on. Interact with the button to trigger the ambush.
Here is clip on how to prevent you from getting ambushed here:
If done correctly all of your party should be hidden, allowing you to being able to ambush the
enemies instead of them surprise ambushing you. There is one melee undead that has a higher
health pool while the others are weaker spellcaster undead. After you loot everything, make your
way to a side room on the western side. There's some minor loot here along with a book with
some skill checks. If you succeed you get some extra experience. There is another Soul Coin in

the sarcophagus that you don't want to miss. Now make your way to the northern room that
opened when you hit the switch. Interacting with the sarcophagus here will trigger a cutscene
with Withers who we definitely was to recruit to our camp, so answer his question. After that's
done, make sure to loot not only the chest but the sarcophagus that Withers came out of as well.
This will net you a third Soul Coin and The Amulet of Lost Voices. Equip this necklace on Tav.
Go ahead and use your second Short Rest to top everyone's HP off and fast travel to the
"Roadside Cliff" waypoint. Take the road west and then make your way north until you're outside
a settlement. There will be a hill you can perch yourself on top that is a very good vantage point
for the fight. Once you get to the edge of this hill, the cutscene should trigger. My main strategy
for this fight is having Tav/Lae'zel focus on the goblins right next to us, then attacking the main
group from behind while Shadowheart/Gale fire off ranged attacks from the hill. You want to
focus on the Bugbear first and then whatever is the easiest to kill from there. Once the dust
settles make your way down the hill and make sure you have the fast travel point "Emerald Grove
Environs" available. If not it's to the east.
If you hit level 3, hold off on actually leveling up yet, as we're going to take advantage of that
with a vendor momentarily. Vendors restock their wares at two points, after a Long Rest and after
a character levels up. Specifically after processing and locking in the level up. This is a great way
to stock up on potions and other consumables without having to go through multiple rests. You
can also take advantage of this with leveling up Hirelings later on if you want.
Loot all the bodies and you'll find that a goblin named Za'krug dropped the Gloves of Power that
would work well on Tav. Make your way through the gate and one of the Tieflings will be having a
heated discussion with one of the NPCs that came running to the gate. Doesn't matter how this
resolves, but make sure to talk to Zevlor before he leaves. We want to learn more about the
druids and ask him about needing a healer. To get both quest prompts, follow this dialogue
selection:
● What is this place?
● I have no quarrel with the druids.
● The ritual - is there a way to convince the druids to stop it?
● Perhaps if you could help me find a healer.
● I'll find her and speak to Kagha while I'm there.
Turn around and make your way up the hill and over the gate that the goblins were sieging. There
will be a nearby hill further up the path that you can go up. A lone Bugbear will be trying to
assassinate a Tiefling that we want to save named Nadira. As you go up the ramp turn on Turn-
Based mode and get the jump on the would-be assassin. Honestly it's fine if she dies, we just
care about the Soul Coin that she has. If she's alive, talk to Nadira to get a fourthSoul Coin. Using
the [Paladin] option will get you it without having to pass a dice roll. Go down the path the
Bugbear came from to make it back to the main path.
Once you get to a fork in the road, you'll meet a vendor called Arron. Consolidate all of your loot
get ready to sell a bunch of stuff. You'll want to hang on to any consumables like poisons,

weapon coatings, arrows, potions, spell scrolls, explosives, ect. Outside of those, sell everything
else that you don't think you'd need. You want to buy the Ring of Flinging and possibly a Potion
of Invisibility if one is available. Follow the left path until you see Auntie Ethel off to the right in
her hut. When you first visit she should have three Elixirs of Hill Giant Strength. Buy all of those
and any other potions that you want. Then lock in the level 3 perks for your characters. At this
point the only one that matters is Tav. There's only one combat encounter between now and
when we reset Shadowheart/Gale classes with Withers. We'll also be replacing Lae'zel with
another companion. For Tav's level 3 spell you'll want to takeShield of Faith.
After leveling you should be able to buy another set of Elixirs of Hill Giant Strength. For a
comparison at this point I was sitting on 6 elixers, 1 potion of invisibility, and 800 gold. Go up the
stairs and you should see Zorru standing next to a shed or walking around this immediate area.
With Lae'zel in the party we can get more information from him about the Githyanki Creche that
she wants to find. To the left of the path there should be a wooden door leading to the makeshift
prison that is holdingSazza, but we don't want to go in there yet. For now, we're going deeper
into the grove. Wyll will be up ahead, recruit him for some easy experience. Further up the path
towards Arron will be a group ofTieflings that we can talk to and want to make sure we save. We
want to convince Rolan to stay and fight with the Tieflings. There will be a [Paladin]option that
automatically convinces him to stay, so no dice rolling needed.
Turn around and you'll notice a stable of animals, one of which is named "Strange Ox". We'll
soon get a Potion of Animal speaking to talk to it in order to set up an interaction in Act 2 and Act
3. If you stand next to the haystack in the pen, someone in your party may pass a check to see
there's some loot hidden in it. There's nothing else in the area, so continue down the path until
you trigger a cutscene between some Tieflings and Druids. Once the crowd disperses, speak
with either Komira or Locke and agree to help their daughter. The druids below will stop you, but
resolve the conversation amicably as we don't want to pick a fight here. Make your way through
the Stone Door to the right. Inside here a Tiefling that we'd like to save, Arabella. To make sure
that happens, pick these dialogue options:
● Thief? Poison? What's this girl's actual crime?
● [Paladin][Persuasion] I am versed in the ways of justice. Make your case, and I will pass
judgement.
● What do you have to say for yourself, child?
● Justice means nothing without mercy means nothing. Let her go.
After that resolves, speak with Kagha and have the conversation end with you agreeing to speak
with Zevlor. You may notice that there is an objective here to kill Kagha, we don't want to do that
(yet). Behind her is a room called the "Servant's Quarters". Split off Tav from the group and
venture in. You should be able to see "Kagha's Chest"stashed behind a bookcase. To the right is
a ledge you can climb up. Sneak over and lockpick the chest to receive some information about
Kagha that will later send us into a swamp. Regroup with the party and at this point Gale may
want to chat. Speak with him to learn more about his condition. Make your way to the other room
here to speak with Nettie and tell her about the parasite afflicting everyone in your party. She will
take you into a backroom where you can promise her that you'll take the poison if needed. Once
she walks out, you can swipe the Mind Flayer Parasite Specimen from her desk. I would

recommend not stealing anything else here.
Once you're back outside, we'll go around this central area in a clockwise fashion. Follow the
path to the left and you'll see a stone archway right next to the druids that were blocking the
Tieflings. Go under that and follow the path to the right. Have a chat with Alfira who is trying to
work out a song. Up against a pillar at the end of the path there is a chest you can lockpick for a
green item that is perfect fodder to feed Gale.
Unfortunately with the Dark Urge Origin there is a scripted event that we kill Alfira when she
eventually visits our camp, which bars us from getting one of the best cloth robes for
spellcasters in Act 2. There is a way to avoid that though! We knock her out before using Long
Rest in the same day. This will cause a different Bard to appear and be a sacrificial lamb. Swap to
Lae'zel and go into your attack wheel to toggle on Non-Lethal Attacks.DO NOT FORGET TO DO
THIS. You have to down her with a physical attack. Ranged or Magic will end up killing NPCs
even if you have Non-Lethal turned on. When you're ready, have everyone enter Hide Party
mode, turn on Turn-Based mode, and lay into her with Lae'zel. Chances are you will need
multiple attacks. It took physical attacks from my entire party to knock her out safely. You'll know
you did it correctly if combat ends and she's on the ground with 1hp left. To help, here is a video
showing how to do this:

Go back to the central area where the druids are performing the ritual and continue to the left to
meet Volo. When you get a dialogue choice with Volo you'll see that you can Trade with him by
pressing
. Do that and you can purchase from him a very powerful ring that we will give to Shadowheart
called The Whispering Promise as well as five Potion of Animal Speaking. Get both the ring and
all of the animal speaking potions as after today he will venture off and we won't see him again
for a bit.
Tell Volo whatever you want and give The Whispering Promise to Shadowheart as it's a perfect
ring for our Cleric. Use a Potion of Animal Speakingon Tav speak to the nearby bear blocking an
elevator to ask it to move without any fuss. Otherwise you could throw a fish that you picked up
or attempt and Animal Handling roll. Circle back round to the druids that stopped the Tiefling
crowd and walk up the path to Arabella's parents. Speak with either of them to get a reward.
Continue up the path to that "Strange Ox" from before and speak to it. Use the [Intimidation]
option to learn some information and set things up for Act 2.
Now go down the path back to where you met Zorru. To the side is a wooden door leading to a
prison area where a goblin named Sazza is being held. We want to help her survive at least until
the golinb camp to make things easier. To make sure that happens, you can follow these choices:
● Step between the crossbow and the goblin.
● [Intimidation] Lower the crossbow, or I'll deliver you right to your brother.
● My reasons are my own.
After that, go ahead and pick the lock on her cage. Make sure to pick the lock and open it with
Tav. This will break your Oath, which is what we want as our goal is to ultimately be an
Oathbreaker subclass. You'll be confronted by an Oathbreaker Paladinwhich we'll talk to at our
camp tomorrow. Get Sazzaadded to the group and jump over to the ledge that is behind her
cage. Don't go into the tunnel just yet though. There's another ledge that you can jump to and
down that path is a pouch with some handy loot. Make your way back and go into the tunnel.
This will be the last combat before our Long Rest.
In this cavern there are three defense statues that will attack you if you aren't careful. Split off a
member of the party that Sazza isn't attached too. Enter Hide Party mode and move close to the
Rune of the Bear (glowing emblem) that is further ahead. Chances are the red sightline of the
goblins will cover that when you enter, so wait for them to move and make the coast clear.
Interact with the rune to disable a nearby statue and then launch a surprise attack on the
goblins. Keep Sazza far away from the combat to make sure she lives. Bring everyone else up
and you can quickly dispatch this group of enemies.
Loot the bodies and you may notice an unconscious dwarf that you can save here. Move Sazza a
bit away from him so he doesn't notice her and then throw a potion or using a healing spell on
him. He'll go back to the grove and will eventually join us for a fight. Climb up the rock steps and
interact with the "Rune of the Eagle" to turn off the last turret. Before messing with the chest in
the alcove, make sure to pickup the Oil Barrel outside of it and the Oil Barrelsinside the alcove.

After disarming the trap on the chest you can open it with the key we got earlier. From the chest
is a staff called Nature's Blessingthat you should give to Gale. Once you're done looting, escort
Sazza out of the cave up ahead and send her on her way.
You'll now be outside slightly west of the Emerald Grove gate. Follow the road west and you'll
cross abridge with several chests to loot. You then may stumble upon the group of adventurers
that led the goblins to the Grove. Depending on how the conversation with Zevlor went, they will
appear here instead of lingering in the Grove. You can inquire about their contract and after the
conversation is over they'll run off, leaving the bodies scattering the ground prime for looting.
Venture forward through the archway and you'll enter the Blighted Village where a dialogue will
start regarding the goblin residents ambushing you. We want to settle this amicably, so go with
the following options:
If you pass a passive skill check and notice the ambush:
● I know you're there. Show yourselves.
● They'll be no skewering happening here. Now let me pass.
● [Intimidation] Out of my way, or I'll cut you down first.
If you don't pass it:
● [Intimidation] I'm not running, and their aim's not good enough to save you.
While here make sure to not leave out of the southern exit until expressly told. Moving into that
area will move Auntie Ethel into the next stage of her quest and causes her to move out of the
Emerald Grove. We want to stock up on more elixirs before that happens!
Walk on in so you're next to the fast travel point. As tempting as it is to go on a looting spree, we
can save that for Day 2. Go ahead and Long Rest (
menu) here in the Blighted Village.
The reason why we're resting here specifically is it should trigger Alfira visiting our camp, but
since we knocked her out another Bard should appear. If you haven't spoken to Gale yet about
his affliction, go ahead and do that now. Before resting you can take off your armor to help with
the upcoming [Stealth]check. Call it a night by resting at the bedrolls and that Dragonborn Bard
will meet an untimely fate. The first two choices don't matter, but select the[Stealth] option to
hide the body to prevent a very awkward conversation with your party come sunrise. Worst case,
you can fess up and blame it on the tadpole causing you to do things.
Day 2
Starting today we'll do a morning routine between applying buffs and elixirs. I'll elaborate more
on that once we recruit our last proper party member at the start of the day.
● Morning buffs
○ Blighted Village goblins (x9)
○ Sleeping bugbear
○ Ogre and Bugbear couple
● Short Rest

○ Flaming Fist Recruit Ephren
○ Paladins of Tyr (x3)
● Short Rest
○ Harpies on the beach (x4)
At this point we'll leave Lae'zel at camp, but before that you can swap armor pieces between Tav
andLae'zel as that will give you +1 more AC. Fast travel to the "Emerald Grove Environs"
waypoint and swing by Auntie Ethel to buy a batch of elixirs. Go out the front gate of the
Emerald Grove and follow the road west. Take a pause when you come across the doorway that
you parted ways with Sazza at. Across the road is a cliffside you can jump up. Do that and then
climb up a ladder to discover some loot. Up here Raphael may appear before you. It doesn't
matter what dialogue choices you make whenever he approaches you. There is a chest on some
scaffolding, an Oil Barrel tucked behind another barrel that you'll surely want to pick up, and in
the southwestern corner is a rocky outcropping that should trigger an Investigation glow. If
you're successful you should retrieve a pouch with a Spider Egg Sac. Using this will summon
some spiders, which will come in very handy during a fight later in this Act. Once you get back
down to the road you'll notice a path going north. Along this path you'll meet duo standing over
the corpse of their brother. By making these dialogue choices, we can recruit them to join us in a
future fight:
● What happened to your friend?
● Hold his stare.
● You need to find the beast and avenge your brother.
Interact with Edowin's corpse and pick the first option. If you're playing a normal Tav, the first
point below will be there, but if you're playing Dark Urge you'll see the second variant:
● Let your curiosity guide you. Free the tadpole.
● Embrace the desire to commune with the tadpole. Will it to break free.
This will net you another Mind Flayer Parasite Specimen. Loot his body properly for some
goodies. Go northwest from here and across the river. To the north from this point, near the cave
entrance, you should see a rock ladder of sorts called a "Cragged Rock", climb up this. Here
you'll see Scratch, interact with him to send back to your camp:
● Reach out to pet him.
● [Intimidation] Stand down!
● Take a closer look at him.
● You're all right, Scratch.
● Come on, Scratch. Follow me.
● Hold out your hand so he can follow your scent to camp.
Jump across the river to the north and around here you may notice Gale hunched over. This is a
sign you need to feed him a magical item to alleviate his symptoms. Speak to him and he may
want to speak about Raphael first. If so, just speak to him again and mention you may have an
artifact to give him. Follow the path east to eventually see Karlachacross the river. Before going
over to her, pick up the Toll Collector's Key nearby on the ground. Speak to Karlach and choose
all of the friendly/positive options to have her join your party.
While we're here we'll unlock a fast travel point for use later. Follow the path north, under a
bridge, and you'll soon see a waypoint portal against the cliffside named "The Risen Road"

waypoint. Now it's time to properly set up everyone's Classes. Go to the camp and here's what to
do with everyone:
● Tav: Speak with the Oathbreaker Knight in the camp if you haven't already who is right
next to Withers. Tell him that you want to be an Oathbreaker to solidify that as your new
subclass. All previous spell selections carry over.
● Karlach: Talk to Withers and make her a Monk. Make sure to unequip her Axe weapon give
her the Ring of Flinging.
● Gale: Talk to Withers and make him a Sorcerer.
● Shadowheart: Talk to Withers and keep her a Cleric. We need to do this to change her
Subclass.
If you haven't spoken to Withers yet, you'll need to go through some dialogue to discover that he
can change classes for 100g per time. In total this will cost us 300g, but will be well worth it!
Here is a breakdown for what to pick for everyone's level up.
10
• Wisdom - 10
• Charisma - 16
(+1 bonus added)

<<TABLE>>
Level 1
  Karlach - Monk
  Abilities: • Strength - 8 • Dexterity - 16 (+2 bonus added) • Constitution - 15 • Intelligence - 10 • Wisdom - 16 (+1 bonus added) • Charisma - 8
  Skill Proficiency: • Acrobatics • Insight
<</TABLE>>

Abilities:
With everything all set up it is time to do the new daily routine of buffs that we'll do at the start of

each day. Fast travel to the "Blighted Village"waypoint so everyone is close together and do the
following:
● Karlach - Drink an Elixir of Hill Giant Strength.
● Shadowheart - Cast Aid on the whole party (AoE cast).
● Gale - Cast Mage Armor on himself.
Now to do a whole bunch of looting by taking everything that isn't bolted down here. As you
explore, make sure to pick up any explosive barrels (Firewine, Smokepowder, etc.) Near the
eastern entrance should be at least one Firewine Barrel(more may be in eyesight). Follow the
path north to find a Heavy Key and the path will loop around behind this house. Go through the
hole and the wall and take everything in both rooms on this floor. Make your way out the front
door and at the front of the building you should find a set of doors you can unlock. In the
basement loot your way forward. Once you go through the doorway ahead, there will be a
trapped chest next to a ladder. Don't interact with that just yet. Instead, go up the ladder and
take the Smokepowder Barrel resting in the alcove. Loot the chest up here for an Infernal Iron
that we'll need later. I recommend still progressing Karlach's storyline at least up until you give
her the second upgrade as that gives her a passive buff that is nice to have.
You're now clear to disarm and picklock the chest down below. As you make your rounds, your
party may discover a wall that can be broken down. Don't bother going in there as it leads to the
Underdark, which we surely don't want to venture to yet. Once you're done with looting this
building make your way outside and head for the building directly south of this one. On the first
floor there are two rooms to do a pass through. You'll find a book mentioning a basement, which
the hatch for is behind the counter with all the herbs/potions. Make your way into the basement
and do another full looting pass of this area. Up in the corner of a wall, right next to a small set of
stairs will be a stack of three boxes with a lever tucked behind. Interact with this and the nearby
bookshelf will move, unveiling a hidden passage. This will lead to a room with a bunch of coffins,
only one of which is safe to open. All the others will trigger an Undead ambush. The safe one is
the first one on the right, tucked up against the rock wall. Make your way up some stairs to
interact with an Ornate Mirror. This will trigger a conversation that will either open another room
filled with lots of loot or set off a trap. To safely navigate the conversation, pick these options:
● Tell it your name.
● [Intimidation] Open or I'll smash you to pieces - bad luck be damned.
Succeeding that dialogue will open up a treasure trove with two major things near the entrance.
First of which is the Necromancy of Thay that is locked behind a gate with several traps. For our
goals, this isn't too relevant, but if you read and put it in your backpack it'll give some
experience. Going clockwise around the room, the alcove next to this holds a Gilded Chest that
contains the Bracers of Defense. Give that to Karlach. Do an entire looting pass of the room and
then get ready for a vendor trip. Fast travel to the "Emerald Grove Environs"waypoint and make
your way to Auntie Ethel. Once you make it to her, visit your camp and load yourself up with
everything that you're ready to sell. Make sure NOT to sell your Spider Egg Sac, we will be
utilizing this in Day 3. She should have another batch of Elixirs of Hill Giant Strength for you to
add to your arsenal.

Across from Auntie Ethel you will find Dammon at his forge. With the Infernal Iron we have, he
can use it to help Karlach with her condition. We need to do this two times in total. If you have
anything left to sell, you can offload it on Dammon or swing over to Arron to peddle your goods.
At this point Gale should hunch over again, so feed him a second piece of magical gear.
After this point one of two things will happen with Gale. At some point in the next few days he'll
hunker over and you need to feed a final third piece of green equipment or if you speak to him
enough and learn about his history with Mystra, your quest log will skip ahead a bit. Either will
progress his quest. Just keep an eye on him and all will be fine.
Make your way back to "Blighted Village" waypoint as there's still looting to be had. Follow the
path north from the portal to see a chest surrounded by some loot. Pick locking the chest will
reward you with the Haste Helm which works great on Karlach.Shadowheart should have started
the game with aScroll of Detect Thoughts, use that on Tav to diffuse the upcoming conversation.
Up the stairs to the left is a windmill with a group of goblins. We can talk our way out of this with
these choices:
● What the hells are you doing?
● Let me rephrase that - why are you doing this?
● Fun's over - release the gnome at once.
● [Detect Thoughts] Read the goblin's mind.
● You don't have the stomach for a fight.
With that, you can freely investigate the windmill. There is a hatch into the basement that has
some loot along with a The Speedy Lightfeet boots that I gave to Tav. On the ground floor there
are two levers, one will spare the gnome tied to the windmill and the other flings him to his death.
Make sure you use the 'Brake' lever to spare our friend. Go talk to him to let him down. After
resolving that, head back to the town center and in the southwestern building there are three
Ogres having a meal. Our goal is to recruit them to our cause. Make sure you're controlling Tav
before starting this conversation. Be prepared to use some Inspiration if you need to.
● [Paladin][Intimidation] Try to eat me and I'll brand your corpse with the mark of my oath.
● I notice you don't bear a brand of your own.
● Forget Goblins. You should be fighting for me.
● [Paladin][Intimidation] Fight for me and my oath or I'll cut the last meal from your belly.
○ This last one is a 20 DC roll, so worse case you fail you can pay them the 500g fee.
Don't worry, we'll be getting that gold back later.
This will net you Lump's War Horn which on use will summon the three Ogres to fight for you.
This will come in very handy once we set our sights on the goblin camp. With that sorted, loot
this building to get some additional camping supplies. One last thing for this town - time to clear
out the Goblins. First off, let's ambush the ones chilling on the rooftops. For this we'll split into
three groups. Tav, Karlach, and Gale/Shadowheart together. Perch Gale/Shadowheart on the
northern rooftop and Karlach on the southern one. Tav will ambush the lone goblin overlooking
an open doorway in the northern building. Ambush them and it should be quick work to kill the
others. Next up is the lone goblin patrolling by the western exit, near where we recruited the

ogres. Lastly, there is a trio of goblins outside the southern building and the nearby exit.
Remember! Do not leave the town via the southern exit!
Once you dispatch them turn your attention north to that large wooden gate. Off to the right is a
sleepingBugbear that we can ambush and kill if you didn't get him before. Go through the gate
and you'll see a shed nearby where a Bugbear and Ogre are spending some "quality" time
together. Unfortunately for them we're going to interrupt them and pick a fight. I recommend
trying to knock the ogre prone with Karlach's Flurry of Blows: Toppleability. Once the fight is over
go ahead and do your first Short Rest of the day. There isn't much loot to be had, but there is a
nearby hill you can climb with a knife jabbed into some meat that you can interact with.
Successfully removing it will reward you with an easy green quality item.
Follow the path until you get to a broken bridge that you can jump across. Make sure to hang to
the left here as down the right path are Hyenas and Gnollsthat we don't want to deal with quite
yet. Continue west until you see a settlement that recently came under attack, fire and corpses
everywhere. Run up to the main building door that several NPCs are trying to force open. Interact
with the door and there should be a [Paladin] option that gives you advantage. Bust through and
charge in. Find the staircase in the back and follow the path until you get to a dead-end with a
blocked doorway. Break down the rubble to free the Counsellor trapped inside. While here, swap
to Turn-Based mode and turn around to see another doorway blocked. Break down that
blockage from a distance as once the barrier is gone, a plume of fire will shoot out. There will be
two rooms here that you unlocked and you want to make sure to stay in Turn-Based
modeotherwise you risk getting taken over by the fire from the adjacent room. Ultimately we just
want to save the NPC here. First break the rubble blocking the exit and then have Karlach
interact with him to try and remove the rubble. If that fails, you can just attack the debris
covering him directly. He'll follow the group to safety out the nearby exit.
In the next building he'll unfortunately find the corpse of his betrothed. He'll mention something
about a dowry. You can use the Speak with Deadability that you get from Tav's amulet to learn
where the dowry is from his dead fiancé. Make your way outside and find Counsellor Florrick by
some other NPCs. Agree to help her and she'll reward you. You'll have three choices for your
reward, but make sure you get the staff called The Spellsparkler. This is a fantastic weapon in
Act 1 for Gale. Go ahead and loot all of the bodies, but be mindful of looting the Flaming Fist
ones as their friends nearby won't take to kindly to that. If you want, you can dispatch the lone
Fist Recruit Ephren as everyone else should leave following your discussion with the Counsellor.
There is a Firewine Barrel in the courtyard you can take that you don't want to miss. Looking at
the entrance to the building that we charged into, there is a path to the left that goes under an
archway. There will be some fire on the ground, but you can clear that out with your Ray of Frost
ability. In the closest barn to you is a haystack that you can interact with. Succeeding the roll will
pop out a chest that has the dowry that NPC mentioned. If your first character fails, you can
attempt with the others to get it to appear. There is a chance that everyone fails, if so not a big
deal. Now make your way to the barn in the far back to find a Startled Ox. It'll take two skill
checks, but you can calm it down for some easy experience. Lastly you can turn your attention to
the middle building that has a few boxes haphazardly blocking the entrance.

To be safe, just send Tav into the building. There will be a lot of explosive barrels and a man very
keen on blowing any intruders to kingdom come.
To safely navigate this situation, here are the dialogue choices:
● [Dexterity] Wait - listen!
● [Intimidation] Careful. You won't kill me, but you will make me mad.
If you safely navigate that, he will give you the go ahead to go to the secret base here. You'll
definitely want to loot the 9 explosive barrels sitting next to you. I know we haven't used any of
these yet, but we'll be cashing them in later in Act 1 to simplify the Githyanki Creche area.
Outside of the barrels, there's nothing really worth looting up here, so make your way to the
hatch. Here on the other hand is a treasure trove of camping supplies for long rests, soloot
everything. Once you're done, there is a wardrobe in the back that will reveal a passageway to
the actual secret base. There will be a new fast travel portal and a set of boxes up ahead. This
would be the extent of the looting here as I recommend staying on the good side of the folks
down here. Shortly ahead you'll trigger a conversation with an NPC named Zarys. Use
the[Intimidation] option to talk your way through. She'll disarm the traps, allowing you to walk on
in. Once you get to a bunch of cargo there is a set of stairs leading to a ladder. There will be
some cargo in the way, so work your way around it. Up top will be Zarys and she will have a job
for you. Accept and make your way back to the courtyard of the settlement.
If you were able to retrieve the dowry, head back into the building on the west part of the
courtyard to return it to Benryn upstairs. Now we'll venture back into the main building to pillage
the ground floor. There is an insane amount of camping supplies here, so let your inner loot
gremlin run wild. The upper floor is may still hazardous, so don't risk running up there. Before
leaving the settlement, make sure you have the "Waukeen's Rest" fast travel option. The portal is
just southwest of the settlement entrance. With that, you should level 4 (or very close).

<<TABLE>>
Tav - Paladin
  Feat: • Savage Attacker
  Spellbook: • Divine Favour

Karlach - Monk
  Feat: • Tavern Brawler • Constitution to 16

Gale - Wizard
  Cantrips: • Light
  Spellbook: • Cloud of Daggers

Shdaowheart - Cleric
  Cantrips: • Light
  Feat: • Resilient •
<</TABLE>>

On paper getting the Dual Wielder feat on Gale may seem an odd choice, but this can be very
poignant on a caster with the right weapons. Case in point, by equipping both The Spellsparkler
and Nature's Blessing, this makes your Magic Missile for example trigger effects from both
staves at the same time.
Now to dispatch the Paladins that Karlach mentioned earlier. In between here and the paladins
are same gnolls that we don't want to deal with yet, but this is why we unlocked the fast travel
point earlier. Fast travel to "The Risen Road" waypoint. In the nearby building will be the paladins.
Before the fight starts, don't bring Karlach into the building as that will start a dialogue. Instead
have someone attack them from the inside. This isn't too hard of a fight if you get Anders out of
the way fast. Once the fighting has started, you're free to bring Karlach in. Focus your attacks on
him and you very well could dispatch him before he can even attack. The other enemies should
fall pretty quickly, but be careful as Cyrel uses Hold Person. Following this fight use your second
Short Rest. Loot the bodies and everything in the house before making your way down to the
basement via the hatch in the main room. Once again there is a treasure trove of loot and there
are four rooms to go one by one through. In rooms two and three, your characters will see trap
vents on the ground. You can pay those no mind at all. To open up the fourth and final room, you
need to sit two characters in Stone Chairs up against a wall. This will open the hidden room, but
be careful as there is a pressure plate as soon as you enter that room. Disarm that make it safe
to traverse. In this room you'll come across the Gloves of Heroismwhich pair well with Tav as our
Paladin.
Now we just have one fight left for the day that we held off on doing - the harpies on the beach.
Attempting this at level 2 and even 3 could be dicey due to their Luring Song, but after being
topped up at level 4, this shouldn't pose too much of a risk. Fast travel to the "Emerald Grove
Enrvirons"waypoint and make your way down to where Alfira is. Before the path leading up to her
you should see a different one going down and to the left. As you near the beach, split our party
into two groups. One with Karlach/Shadowheart and another with Tav/Gale. Have Tav/Gale go up
the nearby ridge and approach the kid with Karlach/Shadowheart, but make sure not to run past
him as that would trigger the ambush prematurely. You will want to have Shadowheart cast
Sanctuary on the child and he'll be 100% safe from the harpy attacks. When speaking with him
choose the following:
● You shouldn't be standing out in the water. It's dangerous.
● I don't hear anything. Come back to shore.
Now you'll be ambushed by Harpies and some of your characters may be lured, meaning you
won't be able to control them and they'll go running towards whichever harpy is singing. Magic
Missile on Gale does a great job of breaking the concentration of the harpy that is singing,

freeing anyone it has enthralled. Your top priority will be to break the concentration of any harpy
singing and then focusing your attacks to quickly lessen their numbers. After the fight is over the
kid will thank you and give the passphrase to their little hideout. Loot the bodies and let's make
our way back to where the Tiefling and Druid groups were standing off by the stairs. Continue up
the path to a Tiefling child named Doni that is standing near a cart. Tell him that you want to go
to the Dragon's Lair and enter the hideout. Go forward and you'll run intoMol, the ringleader of
this group. She'll be impressed after saving two of her crew. Ask her if she needs help with
anything and she'll want you to steal the Druid Idol, which we'll we agree to do. There's actually
a way to go about this and still save the both the Tieflings and Druid Grove as typically stealing
this idol would turn all the druids hostile against the Tieflings. Before calling it a day, go ahead
and swing by Auntie Ethel once more to sell anything you want and buy another batch of Elixers
of Hill Giant Strength. You can go ahead and use your Long Rest now. When you initially load into
camp a scene will play with Wyll confrontingKarlach, go ahead and resolve this amicably.
Day 3
Here are the combat encounters for the day and where we'll use our rests. Today we'll be
focusing on all of the gnolls and venturing into the owlbear den.
● Morning Buffs
○ Gnoll scouting party (x4)
○ Bloated hyenas (x4)
● Short Rest
○ Gnoll war party (x7)
○ Flind
○ Rugan and Olly
● Short Rest
○ Owlbear
After you leave camp make sure to do your morning ritual of using Mage Armor on Gale, using an
Elixir of Hill Giant Strength on Karlach, and casting Aid on the whole party with Shadowheart.
Time to sneak up on some gnolls! The best approach route will be taking the path leaving the
"Waukeen's Rest"waypoint going east. You want to take the top east path that leaves out the
side of the settlement. You'll know you're on the right path if you see someGnolls feasting on
corpses in the distance. Sneak up on them and launch a surprise attack. You should be able to
make quick work of them with an ambush. You'll now see a path going downhill to the south with
a Hyena patrolling. Approach this to trigger a cutscene. There are bloated hyena bodies littering
the road and you want to take the [Melee Attack] option to have one less target to deal with. You
now have one turn to kill all the all bloated corpses until they birth new gnolls. The perk of
approaching it from this angle is if you hadn't dealt with the previous group the one walking
hyena could have run off and alerted them, making things much more complicated.
Loot the immediate area from those two encounters and start heading up the path north after
using aShort Rest. Once you see another group of gnolls, split your party into two groups - Tav/
Karlach and Gale/Shadowheart. Have Gale/Shadowheart sneak up the hill to the right to launch a
surprise attack on the gnoll perched up here. This is where I used the Spider Egg Sac that we got

previously. To use it, drop it on the ground and then attack it. This will spawn five spiders that will
fight as allies. This drastically helps to spread out the attacks. Then have the other group start
attacking the other gnolls on the ground, but don't attack the leader gnoll -Flind. Instead make
sure a character is next to Flind when it becomes their turn. Here is a clip showcasing the setup:
After the surprise effect wears off, a conversation will trigger where we can mind control the
Flind to turn on her allies. The proper dialogue choices to make that happen are:
● Search her mind for the source of the voice.
● [Illithid][Wisdom] You are of the same pack - command her to devour the other gnolls.
Chances are Flind will still be alive after the fight resolves and she may turn on you now. If you
pass two rolls, you can convince her to eat herself.
● [Wisdom] Dominate her mind, commanding her to feast on herself.
● [Wisdom] Harness your willpower, and order her to devour herself.
Worst case you'll have to fight her 1v4, which isn't too bad. Make sure to loot Flind as she has a
Mind Flayer Parasite Specimen. The two survivors from the cave will thank you and they're the
people that Zarys was looking for. Since Zarys only cares about retrieving the chest they were
transporting... our two friends here will have a little "accident". Spring an ambush on them and
loot their entire cave. DO NOT OPEN THE CHEST THEY WERE PROTECTING CALLED "THE
CARAVAN STRONGBOX'. Just pick up the chest and ask no questions. For the best rewards we

don't want to open it (also trust me - you don't want anything to do with what's in there.
Especially if you're on Honor mode. (There's aSpectator trapped inside.) Everything else in the
cave is fair game though. Off to the right of the cave are some traps with explosive barrels and a
boulder attached to two trip wires. Traverse and disarm this section carefully to lay claim to even
more explosive barrels. To be on the safe side, just have one person venture through.
Once you're done in the cave teleport to the "Blighted Village" waypoint and travel out the east
exit. Go down to river and you'll see the Owlbear Cave entrance where the NPCs from before will
be awaiting you. Use your second Short Rest before going inside.The Legendary Action for this
fight allows the Owlbear to call in its mate, making you fight two adult Owlbears. Try to lock one
down and kill them around the same time if it's not too dangerous for you, as one will enrage
when the other dies.
Go inside the cave and when you get close to the owlbear a conversation will play. I would
recommend choosing the [Performance] option as you can get advantage on it with your buffs.
Succeeding will allow you to position yourself in an optimal ambush orientation. Once you're
good, let loose the attacks. Try to use Shadowheart's or Tav's Command: Haltability to keep the
owlbear in it's tracks. After the fight is over, if either of the allied NPCs are alive, kill them for
some extra loot/experience. Next to the nest will be a skeleton holding some armor. There will
also be an Owlbear Egg that you want to grab and hang on to for later. Be mindful to not
accidentally use it when resting as a camping supply as it can be used as food. Make your way to
the back of the cave for to grab some more loot. You'll notice a glowing chest, but don't try to
open it yet as you'll take some damage. Jump across the gap and go behind the statue. You
should discover aprayer note, pick it up. Go back over next to the chest and read the note to
dispel the magical lock. Shadowheart won't like you opening this, but you can convince her with
a dialogue roll of your choice. If you fail, you can still loot it with just some disapproval. In it you'll
find the Moondrop Pendent, which you can give to Karlach.
Before calling it a day lets return the chest to Zarys, so fast travel to the "Zhentarim Hideout"
waypoint and make your way over to her. Tell her that everyone is dead and then give her the
chest you recovered. As a reward she will give you a crossbow and a vendor downstairs will sell
additional items. This crossbow you can either sell or have Karlach hang on to for a little bit as
we'll be getting her true "ranged" weapon in the goblin camp. Go down the ladder and speak to
Brem who is walking between all the nearby cargo. Consolidate all of the recent loot you've
gotten and get ready to do some offloading. Here he has the Titanstring Bow that does additional
damage based on the users Strength, perfect for Tav. Brem also may have some Potions of
Invisibility as well, so make sure to grab those if they're available. Once you're done here, go
ahead and pay our visit to good old Auntie Ethel. Sell anything else that you want and buy
another batch of Elixirs of Hill Giant Strength.
Now you can use your Long Rest. Upon arriving a camp a scene will play out between Mizora
andWyll. Following that, talk to whoever you want at camp and go to sleep. Upon sleeping you'll
meetSceleritas Fel, who is apparently our butler that has been faithfully searching for us. Upon
waking up you will receive The Deathstalker Mantle cloak which will work great on Karlach. Once
per turn if the wearer kills a creature, they'll gain invisibility for two turns. This is perfect for our

Monk to weave between enemies when needed.
Day 4
Here are the plans for today. We'll be focusing the swamp to the south and resolving some things
at the Emerald Grove.
● Morning Buffs
○ Goblin guards (x2)
○ Red Caps (x4)
○ Wood Woads (x2) and Mephits (x4)
● Short Rest
○ Auntie Ethel
○ Masked victims (x4)
● Short Rest
○ Shadow Druids (x3)
Before leaving camp we're going to turn Gale into aWizard for the day as there is one very handy
spell that is exclusive to them that we will use against Auntie Ethel. Speak to Withers with him
and make the following selections.

<<TABLE>>
Level 1
  Cantrips: • Fire Bolt • Ray of Frost • Shocking Grasp
  Spells: • Mage Armor • Magic Missile • Chromatic Orb • Tasha's Hideous Laughter • Thunderwave • Longstrider

Level 2
  Subclass: • Evocation

Level 3
  Spells: • Darkness • Arcane Lock

Level 4
  Cantrips: • Bone Chill
  Spells: • Hold Person • Melf's Acid Arrow
<</TABLE>>

Spells:
• Hold
Person
• Melf's
Acid Arrow

• Long
Strider
Arcane Lock and Darkness are the two crucial spells here. Arcane Lock being the reason why we
swapped to Wizard for today. Both of these are tier two spells, so you need to make sure tosave
two of your three tier 2 spell slots for those. We'll use Arcane Lock when confronting Auntie
Ethel and we'll be using Darkness to steal the Druid Idol after all the fighting today.
Since we did this you'll need to re-equip your other staff onto Gale. Make your way over to the
"Emerald Grove Environs" waypoint for one last batch of Elixers of Hill Giant Strength as today
we'll be progressing Auntie Ethel's questline. After buying those, you should have around 19
stocked up which should cover you for the rest of the playthrough. There will be a higher tier of
strength elixirs that you'll start to see around Act 2 or 3. Now do your morning routine of Mage
Armor, Aid, and Elixir of Hill Giant Strength. Today we'll also use a Soul Coin on Karlach and an
additional elixir on Tav. We'll always be using an elixiron Karlach, but using a bonus one one on
Tav will be situational and vary day to day. The Soul Coin adds a buff to Karlach that lasts until
your next Long Rest. Unfortunately since only a limited amount exist in the game we can't use
one every day, so we need to pick and choose when to use them. On top of that you can also
cast Longstrider on all your characters with Gale.
Now fast travel to the "Blighted Village" waypoint and it's finally time to go out the southern exit.
There may be two lone goblin guards that survived the purge, so quickly take them out.
Continue south and eventually you'll come across Auntie Ethelchatting with two gentlemen. It
doesn't matter how this conversation ends, so side with whoever. Before progressing further into
the swamp, split Tav off from the group and send them back up the hill towards the Blighted
Village. We want to have Galelead us into the swamp and I've noticed an issue where even if
you're controlling Gale, the game will still swap back to Tav for a skillcheck. Lead Gale close to a
bridge into the swamp and a scene will play. Gale should have an additional [Wizard][Arcana]
option that is an easier check than the other one, which is why we're going about it this way. It
would be worth burning an Inspiration or two here as it helps with the upcoming fight.
Take control of Tav and bring the group back together. As you journey through the swamp, try to
stick through the path as much as possible as there are nasty traps hidden around the place. If
you succeeded on seeing through the illusion you'll see some Red Cap enemies up ahead, if not
they'll just look like sheep. If you saw through the illusion, kill them now. If not, you can tackle
them later. Attempting to attack them as sheep will get your party surprised and you could be in
dire straights between the damage output of the melee Red Capsand the Hold Person ability of
the Red Cap Sages. In total there are four red cap enemies. The ideal enemy to launch an
ambush on would be the melee enemy roaming in front of the hill that is probably the first one
that you see. There will be a sage on top of the hill and both a melee/sage behind the hill.
After taking care of those enemies, move your way forward to discover the "Riverside Teahouse"
fast travel point. You don't want to continue ahead into the hut, but instead turn back around. Go
back to the bridge where that investigation check happened and follow the path south. You'll

soon be on a dock that splits to the left and right. To the left is an abandoned camp with some
supplies and to the right is a rock formation that you can jump to. From that island jump to
another rock and up ahead will be a set of enemies to content with. A word a warning - things
can snowball fast here if you aren't careful. There are two tips to make this fight easier. Focus
the Ancient Mud Mephits first as they'll spawn other enemies. Both versions will explode on
death. If you kill the Ancient Mud Mephit, any other enemies that it spawned will die as well. The
Wood Woads will create a terrain of vines and as long as they stand on them they will heal each
turn. To prevent that, hit either them or the terrain with a fire ability.
After the battle is over there are two major things we want to get here, both near the large tree
stump. In the chest are some fantastic gloves called The Sparkle Hands which are super
destructive on a Monk, so give them to Karlach. You can then pass over the Bracers of Defense
to Gale. In the stump itself there is a crevice that is hiding damning evidence of Kagha that we
will confront her on. Outside of this, there is a buried chest on the plateau in the northwest of
this island that you can climb up. Now let's settle things with Auntie Ethel. Teleport back to the
"Riverside Teahouse" waypoint and use your first Short Rest. Make your way up the path and
enter the house to confront Auntie Ethel. Depending on your choices you can get out of the
conversation without starting combat:
● I'm sorry, I should have stepped in.
● That lady doesn't seem to be enjoying her dinner.
● That's none of your concern.
● Leave.
We are going to simplify things drastically. If you already dealt with the redcaps outside, then
you're golden. If not, be prepared to them coming toAuntie Ethel's aid. Typically you would fight
Ethel in two places, the second of which having multiple clones all firing off ranged poison
attacks. Fortunately with Arcane Lock, we can skip that second fight. The wall behind her
fireplace is actually fake and behind it is the entrance to her lair. Have Gale go back there and
use Arcane Lock on the stairway to the next area. Then have Tav/Karlach/Shadowheart go attack
Ethel. When she tries to escape, she'll be unable to. Here's a video showing the strategy:

Once she's dead, loot her and her cabin. When you're ready, let's take a stroll through her now
very safe lair. You'll soon get into a room with several NPCs that have various inflictions that
Ethel inflicted.
On the table here will be a set of four Whispering Masks, GRAB THESE AND MAKE SURE NOT
TO LOSE THEM. We'll need these to enter a place called the Underdark. While there are other
ways to get there, these grant access to the least problematic route. Technically you only need
one, but stash these on a character you won't accidentally sell them from.
In the next room with another group of NPCs, some of which are patrolling around. With Ethel
being dead, they'll not become hostile on sight. That said, kill them for a little extra loot and
experience. Ahead there will be a waterfall that you can jump through to follow the path. Up here
will be a bunch of roots to traverse that are littered with traps and poison gas. With Ethel being
dead though, all the poison gas is gone, rendering the entire trap segment useless!
Once you get in the next room you can free the hostage Ethel took by interacting with the yellow
orb near the cage. Loot the final room and make your way outside with the portal in the back of
the room. This will take you to behind the cabin that we initially confronted her at. If you freed
Mayrina, she'll be here next to a coffin. You can either give her the the wand to resurrect her
"husband" or not, entirely up to you. Now it's time to pay the druids a little visit now where we'll
cause a bit of a ruckus. Before we kick things off though, go ahead and use a Short Rest here.

Make your way back to the "Emerald Grove Environs" waypoint and down to the inner sanctum
area where you first met Kagha. Our goal here is to confront her, convince her to fight on our
side, and make sure she dies in the fight. The recommended dialogue choices are:
● I know the truth. You mean to take the grove for the Shadow Druids.
● Take this letter, Rath. It will explain everything.
● [Persuasion] The shadows won't save you - they'll corrupt you. Stop this, while you can.
● [Persuasion] You know I'm right. Don't let the shadows corrupt you.
If successful then we'll only be fighting three enemy druids that aren't too dangerous, especially
with our allies. Our primary goal is to kill Kagha and to loot her during combat. For whatever
reason, this won't piss off any of the other druids. If you're able to pull that off you'll obtain the
Broodmother's Revengewhich works well on Tav. After looting the enemy druid bodies, make
your way outside to steal theDruid Idol. We'll want to go about this in a specific way. Turn on
Turn-Based mode, cast Darkness near the Idol location, have Karlach steal the ideal, and just
stroll on out. Here's a clip showcasing how this works:
Some of the druids may go running up, but there will be no negative consequences. If you had
stolen the idol before exposing/killing Kagha all of the druids would turn hostile towards the
Tieflings, which would not be ideal for us. Going about it this way though, we can have our cake
and eat it too. Bring this idol back to Mol and she'll reward us with the Ring of Protection which is

really strong ring that we can give to Tav. One last thing for us to do here is to report back in to
Zevlor about Kagha's fate. Following the conversation you'll be rewarded Hellrider's Pride, which
are good gloves to give Shadowheart.
That's a wrap for today, so go ahead and use your Long Rest. I recommend spending another
100g to turn Gale back into a Sorcerer. While the Wizard has more utility, the firepower from
Sorcerer, as well as being able to double cast Haste will be very helpful for later boss fights. To
help here's the breakdown for the options to pick:
•
Intelligence - 16
(+1 bonus
added)
• Wisdom
- 10
•
Charisma - 10

<<TABLE>>
Level 1
  Cantrips: • Fire Bolt • Ray of Frost • Shocking Grasp • Bone Chill
  Spells: • Mage Armor • Magic Missile
  Subclass: • Storm Sorcery
  Abilities: • Strength - 8 • Dexterity - 14 • Constitution - 16 (+2 bonus added) • Intelligence - 16 (+1 bonus added) • Wisdom - 10 • Charisma - 10

Level 2
  Spells: • Chromatic Orb
  Metamagic: • Distant Spell • Twinned Spell

Level 3
  Spells: • Cloud of Daggers
  Metamagic: • Quickened Spell

Level 4
  Cantrips: • Light
  Spells: • Knock
  Feat: • Dual Wielder
  Prepared Spells: • Arcane Lock • Darkness • Mage
<</TABLE>>

Prepared Spells:
• Arcane
Lock
•
Once more, don't forget to re-equip your other staff on Gale. When you're ready, go to sleep.
Astarion will try to bite your neck tonight, so just tell him no and you don't need to worry about
potentially tanking your Honor mode playthrough with a bad saving throw.
Day 5
Here are the plans for today. We'll be focusing entirely on the Goblin Camp.
● Morning Buffs
○ Goblin Camp exterior
◆ Goblins (x20)
◆ Bugbears (x3)
◆ Ogre (x1)
● Short Rest
○ Goblins outside jail (x3)
○ Goblin jail
◆ Goblins (x6)
◆ Wargs (x2)
○ True Soul Gut
○ Minthara and guards (x3)
● Short Rest
○ Dror Raglin and guards (x7)
When you're good to start the day, go ahead and travel to the "Blighted Village" waypoint. Once
you're there do your morning routine of Mage Armoron Gale, Aid, and Elixir of Hill Giant Strength
on Karlach. Today we'll also use a Soul Coin on Karlach and an additional Elixir on Tav. Make your

way west and you'll soon run into Sazza who will escort you past the initial gate. At this point
she'll head inside, but before we join her there we have some things to do. As you enter the main
camp there will be a goblin vendor immediately to the right named Grat the Trader. Consolidate
anything you'd want to sell and buy both the Returning Pike and the Boots of Aid and Comfort.
Give the boots to Shadowheart and the weapon to Karlach. This weapon has a unique function
that it returns to the owner when thrown, which will work very well with Karlach as her ranged
weapon. So you won't actually equip this on Karlach, but she'll keep it in her inventory and use
the "Throw" action. Another reason this works so well is unlike equipping a weapon, unequipping
a weapon in combat doesn't consume an action point. Also as a tip - don't immediately end
Karlach's turn after throwing it as you could bug out the return effect and your weapon will be
left wherever it was thrown.
Towards the center you'll see Volo being held prisoner by the goblins. As we're about to create a
warzone out here, let's send him inside. You can do that with the following dialogue after
interacting with him:
● Boo! Get off the stage!
Off to the left of the the entrance (across from the vendor) you'll see a group of goblins with a
familiarowlbear cub if you spared it when fighting its parents. Save it if you want, entirely up to
you. If you want to, here's how to do it if you use a Potion of Animal Speaking on Tav.
● Speak to Krolla:
○ I can handle myself just fine.
○ Chicken-chasing? What?
○ This is cruel. I won't be a part of it.
● Speak to Owlbear Cub:
○ I have a camp. You're welcome there.
● Speak to Krolla:
○ [Illithid][Wisdom] I don't care what you think. I'm not asking.
Make your way deeper into the camp until you see a bonfire cooking a bunch of meat. Venture to
the left where the "chicken-chaser" course is and you should see some vines on a wall that you
can climb up. Go up the stairs and you'll stumble upon two sleeping enemies next to a Firewine
Barrel. Since they're sleeping you should be able to one-shot them both with Tav. Move further
along and you'll see a trio of enemies - one Goblin and twoBugbears. You should pick off the
goblin first and then attack one of the bugbears. You may not one-shot a bugbear and will get
put into combat, but that is okay. Due to their location, you'll only have to deal with this group
and not the entire camp.
After clearing this upper area of enemies, it's time to pick a fight with the entire outer camp. This
may seem daunting, especially if you're on Honor mode, but we have a trick up our sleeve -
Lump's War Horn. This will summon those three Ogres from before to fight alongside us. You can
attack one of the goblins down below and then use the item to summon the ogres. This will
cause the goblins to funnel to the upper area where either the ogres will smack them upside the
head or you can reign down attacks from above. Make sure to move characters away from ledges
before you end their turn, otherwise they'll get pummeled themselves. Here is a video showing
this setup:

There will be a group of goblins on a stage to the eastern side of the compound. If you started
attacking from the same location I did in the video, they should be within eyesight. I recommend
attacking one of them as for some reason they won't join the rest of the camp if not provoked.
Once all the fighting is over, Lump will confront you saying that wasn't enough to satiate him. If
you successfully persuaded him without offering money during the first conversation, then you
can choose this line to get the trio available for another fight:
● If you help me in another battle, I'll pay (500).
If you had to offer 500g when you first met the ogres, then you'll have to offer 1,000g this time
around. Now there is a lot of looting to do here! There are two notable corpses to loot - Grat the
Trader and Crusher. Since Grat is a vendor, there is some randomness in what wares they drop
upon death, which is why we made sure to buy the two specific items that we absolutely wanted.
For me Grat dropped the Hide Armor +2, which I gave to Shadowheart. If that didn't drop for you,
that's not a big deal, just a minor upgrade. Once you find Crusher's corpse you'll get Crusher's
Ring which pairs well with Karlach to give her some extra mobility. As you loot this area of the
camp, make sure to pick up all the Firewine Barrels. There's also a decent amount of food in the
central area if you want to stock up some more.
Once you're all sorted, make your way through the large wooden doors to go further into the
camp. Now would be a good time to use your first Short Rest. Speak to Sazza to get past the

guards and once you're in the lobby area, make your way to the right where you'll see two
goblins torturing a human. We can try to save him with the[Performance] option, but if it fails
just leave the conversation and leave him to the goblins. Right next door to this location you'll
find a group of goblins watching a rather peculiar man namedAbdirak. If you undergo a
sequence with him where he lashes you three times you'll get a permanent buff called Loviatar's
Love that gives a +2 bonus to Attack Rolls and Wisdom Saving Throws for 3 turns when you have
30% HP or less. To start things off, talk to Abdirak:
● You mean the one they are torturing?
● I often feel I like raw pain too much. It scares me.
● Clever man. How did you know?
● And how would you do that?
● All right, why not?
He'll then ask you to face the wall where you'll take three damaging hits. In total I took 15
damage, but I'm not sure how much variance there can be. Since you should be at full health, you
should be fine no matter what:
● [Intimidation] Come on. A child can hit harder than that.
● [Intimidation] You look tired. Should I take over?
● [Intimidation] Hit me as hard as you can - or I'll return the favor.
● Thank you. I enjoyed myself.
With your buff in hand, feel free to use a Potion of Healing or two to top yourself up. Definitely
not worth expending a spell slot over this. Right next to this room is another where Volo is being
held. Speak to Gribbo here to set our friend free:
● So I see. Do you have any plans for this pigeon?
● I was admiring him. I would like one of my own.
● [Intimidation] I'm done talking. Open the cage or you'll be sorry.
To the north of this room you should see a wooden path. Follow it to find a group of three goblins
that are guarding the prison room. Head inside the prison with your full party. Here is where
Halsin is being kept prisoner and we'll want to split Karlach away from the rest of the group.
After going down the initial stairs into the room you should see two sets of stairs. Put Karlach at
the top of the right stairs that are leading down. Have the rest of the group go down to the cells
to trigger a cutscene.
● What the hells are you doing?
● Leave him alone!
● Attack the goblins.
There are two goblin kids named "One" and"Three" that will try to escape. If they're successful,
they'll alert the entire camp. They'll use both Dashand Disengage to try to run past you, which is
why we left Karlach up the stairs to quickly take care of them without issue. Aside from the
goblins, there are a couple of Wargs in the other cell that one of the goblins will try to let out. If
you can cut them off, then you can make short work of the wargs while they're trapped in the
cell. After the fight is over Halsin will speak with you. The only choice that matters is making sure
he stays here in the jail area. Do a quick loot pass and make sure to grab the three Firewine
Barrels in the area. One is in the middle of the lower area and the two others are in two separate
side rooms. Make your way down to the central area we walked past before to meet True Soul

Gut at the top of the altar. She is one of the three goblin leaders that we need to dispose of, but
we won't actually fight her as we can get rid of her by making specific choices. The first
conversation will go as follows:
● Why should I let you brand me?
● Hold out your hand.
● Push deeper into her mind.
● Any help would be appreciated. I need a healer.
She'll now escort you to a side room towards the left of this area. She'll want to do this along
with you, so split Tav off from the group and go into the room alone.
● Yes. I'm ready.
● Allow her to rummage through your memories.
● Then get it out of me.
● I'm ready.
● I'm not drinking that.
● I'll make you pay for this goblin.
● Set me free. Now.
● Nothing's changed. I'm in control.
● You won't live to see it, trust me.
● Keep quiet.
● Preserve your strength.
Following that last choice a mysterious individual will appear behind Gut and instantly kill her
along with her ogre bodyguard before setting you free. Loot Gut's body for a key and Mind
Flayer Parasite Specimen. Swap to the rest of your party and go into the room that you were
alone with Gut in. In the back there should be a door that leads you to this secluded area,
reuniting your party. Loot the area and follow the tunnel leading you east. Eventually you'll reach
an open room with four tiles on the ground tied to a puzzle. The goal here is to have all four of
the black dots to be on the southern stone disc. The puzzle solution is:
● Spin the south disk three times.
● Spin the west disk once.
● Spin the south disk once.
● Spin the east disk twice.
● Spin the north disk once.
● Spin the west disk three times.
This should open up the path another path to the Underdark that you can use as a backup. Don't
venture down there now though. At this point you should hopefully be level 5 on all characters.
Not much to choose from for a majority of your characters, but here are the recommended
choices.
Haste combined with Metamagic: Twinned Spell is a very strong combo from Gale. This would

<<TABLE>>
Tav
  Spellbook: • Branding Smite

Karlach
  • Nothing to choose.

Gale
  Spells: • Haste

Shadowheart
  Spellbook: • Glyph of Warding
<</TABLE>>

allow you to give additional actions, movement, and AC to two characters of your choice. Always
give this to Karlach and then either Tav or Gale depending on the fight. I recommend always
using this during any boss fight or major fight.
Make your way back to that room where True Soul Gut had you drink that potion. To the southern
part of the room there is some wooden scaffolding up above that you can jump up to with
Karlach or Tav. Jump up there and down into the adjacent room. In here there is a whopping
thirteen explosive barrels that are a mix of Firewine and Smokepower, send all of these to your
camp. The chest here has some gold, but there isn't anything else of note. Jump back up to the
scaffolding and leave the room. To the south you'll see Roah Moonglow who is a vendor that you
can offload any items you want to sell. She may have some potions that you want to grab, like
Potion of Invisibility, so stock up on any supplies that you want. There is also aSmokepowder
Barrel in the corner near the vendor that you can pick up. Once you're done with the vendor, time
to deal with another goblin leader -Minthara.
Make your way down to the central altar and follow the stairs up. Go to the east side and here
you'll see a giant wooden door and a path leading to a library area to the right, go into the library.
Here Mintharawill be across the bridge where Sazza is waiting. We don't really care about Sazza
at this point, so you can get ready to attack Minthara with her still present. Take note of the
Scrying Eye that patrols around which we need to be very careful of. It could alert neighboring
enemies, making things very complicated. A good way to deal with this is get your party across
the bridge, wait for the eye to patrol near it, enter Turn-Based mode, and then have Gale fire off
a Thunder imbued Chromatic Orb. Thunder damage usually works really well on the Scrying
Eyes, so remember that for future use.
You can turn on non-lethal damage if you want to save Minthara as she's a recruitable
companion, but you can also just kill her. Choice is entirely yours. The few goblins in this room
pose no threat, so all said and done you should be able to clear out this area fairly quickly. Loot
Minthara for another Mind Flayer Parasite Specimen. Make sure to open the nearby gilded chest
for The Watersparkers boots. Grab these and give them to Gale. Once you're done with this room
it's time to take on the last goblin leader. Go ahead and take your second Short Resthere. Make
your way back to that large wooden door that we passed and continue going west until you see
and open entryway into that room. Here you'll see the last goblin leader Dror Raglin with a group
of followers. Also as a warning, after attacking Dror the rest of the goblins in the camp will
become hostile. So once you start this fight, make sure not to go back into the main lobby of this
fortress (where you first met True Soul Gut) as you could turn Roah the vendor hostile,
potentially complicating her return in Act 2.
Go up the stairs to the left of the room and split Gale off. Place him in front of the throne on the
upper level. In this fight we'll want to summon our ogre friends again. We'll use them as meat
shields for the enemies in this room while also attacking them from behind. May seem cruel, but
it's a tough world out there and they'll eventually either turn on us or squeeze us for even more
gold. After you do a certain amount of damage they'll go hostile to some of your characters, so
my advice is to chip away at them and the goblins from a distance while they hopefully attack
each other. The rest of the group can be positioned in the upper level. With Gale you want to use

a Magic Missile to attack a drum off to the side and Dror at the same time. If a goblin interacts
with the drum it somehow takes the ogres out of combat. Once the fight starts use whatever
your first character to summon the ogres. If it helps, here is a video clip showing the setup.
Dror isn't a push over on Honor mode, so don't take him lightly like True Soul Gut or Minthara. I
also advise staying away from the floor openings in the lower level as Dror can knock you down
into thespider pit, which is definitely not a fun time. Just focus on ranged attacks between the
ogres andgoblins, picking off who you see fit. Once everyone is dead, get to looting! Dror Raglin
should have a Mind Flayer Parasite Specimen along with a key and Lump should have the money
you previously paid him along with the Warped Headband of Intellectthat you can give to Gale.
Make your way up the stairs to open the treasure room with the key you just got. This will have
another Infernal Iron along with 500g and some other goodies. This is the last Infernal Iron that
we need for to buff Karlach. We won't be able to use it until Act 2 though, so hang on to it.
Even though a quest marker says to return to Halsinyou can actually teleport to the "Emerald
Grove Environs" waypoint and he'll magically appear at the druid grove. Make your way in the
gate and Zevlorshould congratulate and reward you. Accept the reward from him and you'll get
Wapira's Crown, which is great for Shadowheart. He'll mention a celebration party and ask if you
want to start it now, decline so we can talk to some more people. Halsin will be nearby, go ahead

and talk to him next. Now make your way down to the inner sanctum where we fought Kagha and
the shadow druids. In here talk toKath and he'll mention giving you a reward and give you a Rune
of the Wolf. Go to the back of the area to the secret room Nettie opened up when you talked to
her. Here you'll see a statue surrounded by four pedestals, three of which have a rune in. Place
the rune you just received in the open pedestal and interact with each one, opening up a
staircase. There's some miscellaneous supplies and a rare item down here that you can sell for
some extra gold. Don't Long Rest yet, but just go to camp. Since we saved Volo, here's here and
we can talk to him to trigger a setup for another permanent buff.
● What do you know about mind flayers?
● And there parasites? Do you know anything about them?
● A mind flayer placed one of their larvae in my brain.
● Ceremorphosis? Tell me more.
● If only your disbelief could alter facts.
● Examine me. Find out for yourself.
● I want rid of this thing by any means necessary.
Now you can use your Long Rest to start the celebration party. Talk to whoever you like and
romance whoever you like! After today we'll start venturing into the other regions in Act 1.
Day 6
Today we'll be diving down into the Underdark.
● Morning Buffs
○ BOOOAL
○ Village of Kua-toa (x9)
● Short Rest
○ Bulette
○ Injured Minotaur
○ Drow (x1) and Hook Horrors (x4)
● Short Rest
○ Group of Duergar (x4)
○ Sovereign Glut
As soon as the day starts Halsin will debrief the group on how to get to the Moonrise Tower.
He'll mention two different paths and we'll be exploring both of them for the sake of experience
and loot. Speak to Volo to get a permanent "See Invisibility" buff that helps in uncovering any
enemies that are invisible within a certain distance of you. The only downside is it costs your
character an eye, but this is purely cosmetic and Volo gives you a fake one. If you want to get
this buff speak to Volo and make these choices:
● Has your research turned up anything that might help with this parasite problem?
● How many times have you done this before?
● Do it.
● Endure the discomfort. Let him carry on.
● Clench your fists.
● Hold as still as possible.
● Eye the implement, but allow him to proceed.
● Hold your breath.

● [Any pain sound]
● All is well. I think.
Grab one of the Whispering Masks that you picked up earlier and teleport to the "Riverside
Teahouse"waypoint. Once there, go ahead and do your morning buff routine of Mage Armor on
Gale, Aid(tier 3), and Elixir of Hill Giant Strength on Karlach. As we unlocked higher tier spell
slots I would recommend always using the highest one when you cast Aid at the start of each
day. The higher the tier, the more max hp it grants for the day. For example if you use a tier 3 slot
you'll get 10 extra hp instead of 5. Go inside Auntie Ethel's lair and get to the point where you
had to traverse down a bunch of trapped vines. Off to the side here is a secret passageway only
accessible if one is wearing a Whispering Mask. Go down the ladder and follow the vines north to
see a ledge you can jump up to. Put the mask on Tav and stand near the wall, revealing it to be
an illusion. Have everyone else jump up (Gale and Shadowheart may take a bit to find the right
angle). Inside you'll find a portal you can interact with. If you need help finding this location, you
can watch this video.
After being teleported to the Underdark there is a path ahead into a rock wall (another illusion)
with a portal on the other side. Around your area will be some orange mushrooms named
Torchstalks. Like with other mushrooms in this region, they trigger by being close to them and
will explode. Use ranged attacks remove all of them. To the west you'll see a set of stairs. Stop

once you get to the top as there are two defense turrets that will obliterate you if they see you.
Separate Karlach from the group, use an Invisibility Potion, and get ready to run past them. The
goal is to get to the back of the area and jump down some mushrooms to get behind the nearby
tower. Here is a video clip showing you pathing:
Once you get to the bottom, pick up a Sussur Bloomby the glowing tree. Break down the door
into the tower and inside you'll find a generator you can interact with. Put in the Sussur Bloom
and that will not only power the elevator up, but turn off the turrets outside. Make your way up
the stairs and ascend up the elevator to the next floor. On a shelf towards the western edge of
this room is aThreadbare Book, make sure to read it. Around this floor are also Tongues of
Madness and Timmask Spores, both of which you should pick up for a future quest. After getting
those three items use the elevator to go up another floor. Use the lever near the eastern door to
unlock it, allowing you to bring the rest of the party up to the tower to regroup. Now go outside
the northern door of this floor to find a"Mundane Chest". This is actually an enchanted chest
that obscures items within it to make them seem useless, but there are actually valuable items
such as scrolls inside, so don't miss out on those. Use the elevator to up yet another floor. In the
southeastern corner is a book called the The Roads to Darkness, make sure to read that as well.
Loot whatever else you want and make your way up to the top floor. Here you will meet Bernard

who we'll have a lovely chat with due to the two books we read on our way up here:
● 'Or art thou friend. a rescue from my lonely wake?'
● 'How can I trust? How will I ever know? / How can I show myself, my darkest me?'
The first line makes Bernard friendly and the second grants us the Guiding Light ring. Go ahead
and give that to Gale. After you equip it a new button labeled Basement will appear in the
elevator. Go down here for some extra loot to pad your coffers. There is a gilded chest that holds
The Sparkswall ring which works great on Gale as it makes him immune to being electrocuted.
Make your way outside and back to the area with the orange mushrooms that you were at
previously. Now in the northeast corner of the cavern area will be an orange mushroom off on a
ledge. Attack it and jump across the gap to access a Cragged Rock leading into a hole below.
Here is a video clip to help you locate the area:
Down below you'll come across a peculiar sight. A red cap going under the name BOOOAL has
convinced a group of Lua-Toa that they are a god. By making some specific dialogue choices
you can turn this group fight into a 1v4 fight against the red cap alone:
● You can give it a rest. Your 'god' isn't real.
● [Persuasion] He's a fabrication. Whatever you created him for, you don't need him.
● I'll just kill you and claim it for myself.
Ideally you'd fight the red cap along, but if you're unable to just focus your attacks in him first

and whittle down the worshippers. If you do fight the red cap alone, split up your group and
ambush the lua-toa for some extra experience and loot. After all the fighting is done here you can
use your first Short Rest. Make your way back up and jump across the gap. You should be right
next to a Cragged Rock leading further up. Go up here, but get ready to be ambushed by a mini-
boss known as a Bulette. It will tunnel underneath your party and enter combat with you. There
will be a vibrating dirt mound that the creature will jump out of. Move a bit away from it to
prevent taking unnecessary damage. If you don't kill this fast enough it will run away, but by
using theTwinned Haste combo here on Karlach and Tav, you should be able to kill it without
issue. Cut through the webbing down the path and you'll see a ledge off in the distance where
some orange capped mushrooms are (these are safe).
You should have a few Scrolls of Feather Fall from all your general looting so use one (or other
means to traverse the distance) to make it across the gap safely. Follow the path up and to the
northeast until you see a field of Torchstalks and Timmask mushrooms. Attack them all from a
distance until the field is clear. To the north you'll meet a colony of sentient mushrooms that will
be the town of this area. Go inside until you discover the "Underdark - Myconid Colony"
waypoint. Immediately leave and head south, jumping across a gap. At the top of the path is a
long Timmask mushroom you can deal with from a distance. At the top, turn around to find a
ridge that bridges over the path you were just on. Here is a sword you can pull out of the stone
for some extra vendor material by making these choices:
● [Paladin][Religion] Consider what the appropriate ritual might be.
● Shed a few drops of blood onto the stone.
From here go east and you'll see some wooden spikes with a wounded Minotaur behind them.
Charge at the Minotaur and attack it before it gets itself killed by some defense towers. Near the
wooded barricades should be an Oil Barrel for you to pick up. From where you killed the Minotaur
there is a Selunite Outpost to the south that has the aforementioned armed defenses. To
circumvent these, take control of Karlach and split her up from the party. Get close to the initial
stairs of the bridge, turn on Turn-Based mode and use the Dash ability. Quickly run across the
bridge and jump down to the ledge on your right. Walk around the ledge, deal with the
mushroom, and on your left you'll see an open window granting you access.
The statue in the middle is powering the outside defense and you can turn that off by attacking
thecrystal on top of it. Interact with the lever near the front gate to open it and regroup with the
party. There is a side room down here that has a teleport waypoint, so make sure you have that
discovered. In this bottom area are four Oil Barrels to pick up. Towards the front of the outpost
there are two staircases that lead up above the gate. Up each of these stairs are another barrel
on each side. Go up the stairs in the back and immediately to the right is another barrel. To the
left is a door you can picklock open, but since it has a DC of 20 you can just swap to Karlach and
use unarmed strikes to break it open. Here will be another barrel and a chest you can picklock
open. In the chest is the Helmet of Smitingwhich is great for Tav. Right next to this you should
uncover a fake wall that opens to another room. Inside here is another barrel and a trapped
chest. Make sure to pick up the barrel before attempting to disarm the trapped chest. Disarm
and picklock the chest to get the Luminous Armor which is perfect for Shadowheart. With that

you can teleport back to the town with the "Underdark - Myconid Colony"waypoint.
Follow the red/orange mushrooms as they lead to an upper platform. Here you'll meet the leader
-Sovereign Spaw. Speak with Spaw and agree to deal with the Duergars that have been
attacking them. Near the mushroom stairs leading back down there is an injured gnome called
Thulla that you can give an Andidote to if you have one. Down the stairs and to the left you'll see
an alcove with an hobgoblin named Blurg. Chat with him and choose the following to set up a
quest that rewards another character buff:
● I've never heard of the Society of Brilliance.
● A mindflayer infected me with a tadpole.
● Explain the whole story.
● Yes. Absolutely.
● Relax and let Omeluum's mind search your own.
● Can you extract the tadpole?
● That doesn't sound ideal.
● Tell Omeluum about the strange mind flayer ship that you were on.
● Thanks for the information.
● Bypass? What kind of alchemy are we talking about?
● I think I already found what you're looking for.
● Drink the potion.
● [Saving Throw] Draw on your willpower and resist.
● [Saving Throw] Drown out the tadpole by focusing on a tune.
○ If you fail either Saving Throws, don't worry.
● You were supposed to make it weaker, not stronger.
● So I went through all this and the tadpole's still lodged in my brain?
● How about I tell you more about that nautiloid? Every last detail.
● [Performance] Give a dramatic retelling of your time on the mind flayer ship.
This will net you the very good Survival Instinctability on Tav. Before leaving this alcove, speak
toOmeluum as they now have wares you can browse. Get the very affordable Ring of Salving to
give to Shadowheart and Boots of Stormy Clamour to give to Gale. Now speak to Blurg as he has
wares you can buy as well. We want to buy Melf's First Staffand the Psychic Spark amulet. Give
both of these items to Gale as well, replacing Nature's Snare with your new staff. The amulet is
very nice if you use Magic Missile often as it adds an extra projectile whenever you cast it. Follow
the path west and you'll be approached by a Myconid namedSovereign Glut. Agree to bring it
along with you. Nearby you should also see a dwarf named Derryth Bonecloak. Talk to her and
agree to help find her husband. Before leaving, check her wares and buy the Caustic Band ring,
Amulet of Restoration, and any potions that you want. Give the ring to Tav and amulet to
Shadowheart.
To the southwest you should see a pathway leaving the colony, go out that exit and follow the
path west. You'll see a few green mushrooms ahead of you, so throw a Firebolt at them from a
distance to clear the path. Climb down the vines to find a giant field of them. At this point take
control of Karlach and separate her from the group. Approach the mushrooms until you get a
cutscene where we find that Derryth's husband got himself trapped in there and he needs his
back to escape. The trick is all of these mushrooms are explosive and trigger when you get too

close, setting off one will set off the entire field. The goal here is to reach Baelen's pack, throw it
to him, grab a Noblestalk mushroom in the far corner, and escape.
To successfully pull this off you want to jump along the ridges to your left until you can cleanly
jump to the backpack among the mushrooms. Throw the backpack to Baelen so he can escape.
At this point swap to "Turn-Based" mode and use your Step of the Wind: Dash ability. This
makes it so you can jump as much as you want with using any Bonus Actions. Jump all the way to
the Noblestalk (blue mushroom) and then jump your way back to the party. Here's a video to
show the pathing:
Speak to Baelen once more to send him back to his wife. Make your way back up the vines and
take the other path available leading you further southwest. In this next area are a total of four
Hook Horror enemies and a Drow leading them. If you can ambush them successful to take
them down one by one you can breeze through them. If not, they'll call the others for assistance.
If that happens you can whittle them down pretty quickly if you focus your attacks. If you only
see three Hook Horrors there is one more up above you along the tree roots. I recommend killing
that one as well so it doesn't ambush you later. After clearing all the Hook Horrors, you're free to
use your second Short Rest.
Make your way south until you're at a cliff overlooking a decrepit village. Split off Karlach and

leave her up here. We'll take the rest of the group around to fight the enemies here, but Karlach
will actually stay up top to reign down spears. With the rest of the group go along the cliff north
until you can walk down into the village. Here you'll be able to ambush the group of duergars.
Here's a video showing how you can sneak up on them:
To actually trigger the fight, walk down to Lurgan and trigger a cutscene. Now swap to Karlach
and you should be able to see the leader Gekh Coal. He has a habit of reanimating all the nearby
corpses and using invisibility to escape. To prevent that, have Karlach focus him with spear
throws first. If that's not enough, Gale could send off a Magic Missile volley from around the
corner. The enemies can approach both from the path to the left of the main group and through
the building to the right, so be careful to make sure you don't position yourself into a bad spot.
With Karlach throwing two spears a turn you should be able to make quick work of the enemies.
Do a loot pass of the village and make sure to grab the "Underdark - Beach" waypoint at the
bottom. You can swap to Karlach and teleport her down, sparing you having to run her all the way
around. Speak to Glut and he'll want you to betray Spaw and make him the new Sovereign. Go
ahead and just to kill Glut while you're down here for some easy experience. Take note of the
ship you can interact with at the docks, but don't do that yet as it takes us to another area.
Next up, head back to Soverign Spaw. Report in that the duergar have been slain and you'll next

be tasked with killing their ringleader - Nere. Agree to kill Nere and make your way west to the
dwarf trader we met before. Speak to her to get your reward for bringing her husband back.
Speak to her once more and make these dialogue choices:
● This is dangerous territory. You must be down here for a reason.
● Show her the noblestalk.
● Give it to her.
This will now set her to become a useful vendor later in Act 3. Once you're done here you can
call it a day and use your Long Rest. No night event tonight.
Day 7
Here are the plans for today. We'll be venturing down into the Grymforge.
● Morning Buffs
○ Mimics (x3)
○ Nere and duergar encampment
◆ x21 in total but split across multiple fights
● Short Rest
○ Animated Armors (x4)
○ Magma Mephits (x9)
● Short Rest
○ Grym
◆ Will be using a one-shot strat
Similar to what we've done before, you'll want to save a spell slot for our strategy against Grym
at the end of the upcoming area. Specifically we want to save a tier two spell slot on Gale to use
the Enlarge spell that we'll be unlocking later in the day.
Fast travel to the "Underdark - Beach" waypoint. Do your morning buff routine of Mage Armor,
Aid, andElixir of Hill Giant Strength. We have a big fight ahead of us so use another Soul Coin on
Karlach and an additional Elixir on Tav. Head over to the docks and interact with the ship here to
sail off into the darkness. During your sail you'll be confronted by a duergar commanding
another boat. Talk your way through with the [Intimidation] option. This will bring you to a new
area - Grymforge. After the initial landing conversation make your way up some stairs until you
reach the "Underdark - Grymforge"waypoint. Instead of going further up, we're going to follow
the path east. Follow the pier as it bends north to see two duergar throwing a bunch of gnome
bodies into the water. Talk to them and make these choices:
● Grim work. Did you kill them?
● I hope you're checking them for loot first.
● [Perception] Inspect the corpses.
● [Deception] I'll finish up here. You're wanted with the others.
This will not only net you a ring that lets you useInvisibility once per long rest, but it gets those
two away from the area. If you're unable to get them to leave, you can just quickly kill them.
Picklock the large door near where all the corpses were gathered and go towards the back left of
the room. You should uncover a button that opens a hidden passage. At this point separate
Karlach form the group and take control of her. Enter "Hide Party" mode and open the door for

the next room. Be careful of yellow puddles on the ground, you want to walk around these. This
means a slime enemy is lurking on the ceiling above and they're honestly a pain to fight. Just
skip them. While sneaking you will be able to walk up the two sets of stairs and along the cliff
until you reach a gap. Jump across the gap and make your way up some rubble near a door. At
this point you'll want to use an Invisibility potion (or the ring if you got it). The goal is to sneak up
next to a gnome inside and steal a Runepowder Barrel next to her. If you approach her normally,
she'll likely blow herself up along with it. This is hands down the strongest explosive in the game,
so we don't want to let this opportunity pass by.
We'll be expressly saving this barrel for a fight in Act 3, so make sure NOT to use it until then.
After the gnome leaves feel free to loot this room if you want. Teleport Karlach and the party to
the"Underdark - Grymforge" waypoint to regroup. From here go up the first flight of stairs going
south. Instead of going up the next set of stairs you should be able to turn around and go down a
long hallway. Eventually you'll see a group of skeletons near two sets of stairs, go up the left one
into a side area. Towards the back of this and down you should see three chests. Those aren't
normal chests though, but Mimics. Fortunately from up here we can safely attack them for some
easy kills. If they get into the right position they possibly could get a ranged attack off, so at the
each of each character's turn just move them away from the ledge. If you'd like help finding the
mimics, here's a video clip showing the location:

Kill them from a distance and go back to the skeletons that we used as a landmark. If you have
aPotion of Animal Speaking, use it here to help with an upcoming situation. From those skeletons
follow the north path to find a group of duergar with somerothe (cattle-like creatures). Speak to
them and make these choices to turn the beasts against them:
● You want me to cane those poor beasts?
● Leave it to me. I'll show these deep rothe who's in charge.
Speak to one of the rothe:
● [Persuasion] Give in to your rage and avenge your pain. Don't strike us all, just your
masters.
Be very careful of any ledges and stay away from them as all of the duergars have a habit of
using knock backs. Once the duergar are dead you can speak to the rothe once more to ask it to
unblock the passage for additional experience. Don't bother going down that path though. Go
back the way you came and keep your attention to the right. You should see a ledge that is
actually a Cragged Rock that you can climb down to those mimics. Loot your spoils and make
your back up to the main path. Follow the set of stairs that goes to the northeast and you'll see
two duergars talking. Speak to Elder Brithvar and make these choices to turn some of the
duergars into allies:
● Don't be absurd. I hate these True Soul cultists.
● A stench? Ridiculous. I'm no more a True Soul than you are.
● [Deception[ I was a True Soul. That cult lied to me - now I want revenge.
● Depends. What do you need done?

● I'm in.
● Leave.
Up ahead you'll see a group of gnomes trying to dig out some rubble. Go to camp and grab
aSmokepowder Barrel. Place this barrel near the rubble and get your party into position. Split off
Karlach to go up a ladder and space out Tav, Shadowheart, and Gale away from each other and
away from ledges down on the floor. I personally spaced them around the large tent. You want to
beVERY careful with your positioning here. The enemies will gladly knock you into the lava, so
do your best to keep your distance.
The upcoming boss, Nere, has two main abilities that I want to call out ahead of time.
● Wicked Coercion - Forces an enemy to fight for Nere, even after his death. Effect will end
when the target takes non-psychic damage. If one of your characters get's hit by this, you
may need to smack them out of it.
● Psionic Visage - If attacked he can summon three mirror images of himself. If he's
successfully attacked with that active, one of the images will explode, and area of damage
on the attacker and knocking them back.Because of that, make sure whoever attacks Nere
isn't next to another friendly unit.
Blow up the barrel with a Fire Bolt and a cutscene will soon play out:
● [Paladin] No more innocents will die today, Nere.
● [Paladin] And you waste your time persecuting them. That is true weakness.
● That's your cue, Brithvar. It's time you got paid.
● Side with Brithvar and the rebels.
Your instinct may be to focus on Nere first, but you actually want to target Mind Master Dunnol
andMind Master Fonmara. These two enemies can mind control members of your party, which
can cause some serious issues fast. After the two Mind Masters are dead, definitely focus down
Nere. Once he's dead, you can start whittling down everyone else (including the allied duergars).
Same as before with the ogres, after a certain amount of damage they may turn hostile against
the attacker, so use your judgement on who to attack.
Once the fighting is over interact with Nere's body. You will be prompted to cut off his head for
Sovereign Spaw. As for the loot, give theDisintergrating Night Walker boots to Karlach and use
the Mind Flayer Parasite Specimen on Shadowheart to unlock the "Favorable Beginnings"power.
The other loot of note is the Jorgoal's Greatsword from Corsair Greymon. The damage may be
slightly less than your current weapon on Tav, but it has a very nice attack option calledColossal
Onslaught. It's a linear cleave attack that doesn't have a cap on how many enemies it can attack,
unlike other Cleave abilities. If any enemies got knocked into the lava and you want to retrieve
their loot, there is a way to manage that, but you have to do things in a specific order:
● Have a character near full health.
● Enter Turn-Based mode.
● Jump into the lava near the body and loot it.
● Turn off Turn Based mode and immediately return to camp.
If you time it right you should only take one tick of lava damage, and when you return you'll be
somewhere nearby that isn't in the lava itself. Next speak to Beldron, the gnome that is lingering

nearby, and agree to help his captured compatriots that are at Moonrise Tower. Before you
progress further, we can pick off a few remaining duergar. Walk back to the dock area to pick off
any lingering patrol units. Right next to the boat may be two guards, but there should be at least
two up some stairs directly east of the waypoint. Kill them and send the gnome that approaches
you back to the others at the dig site where you fought Nere, which you should go back there as
well. You'll see a set of planks going over the lava to an apparent dead end to the southeast. Off
in the distance is a ledge that is more than likely outside of your jump distance. Fortunately with
your new fancy boots on Karlach, you can use the Misty Step ability to teleport over to that
ledge.
As soon as you jump over you'll see the Splint Mold (Heavy) on the ground near a body, pick that
up for later. Up the stairs and nearby to the right will be the"Underdark - Ancient Forge"
waypoint that you want to make sure you grab. Teleport the rest of your group up to this point,
but still keep Karlach separate. Now you can finally use your first Short Rest and we're going to
use Misty Step once more. Go back down to the ledge that you initially usedMisty Step to and
further above you is a different ledge that we can use the ability to access. The angling could be
hard to communicate over text, so here's a video clip:
Follow the path down and to the north and jump across a gap to rundown hallway. Continue north

until you see a Double Iron Door to the right. Picklock the door and enter this side room. Go up
two sets of stairs and you'll see a third covered by rubble. At the top of this third set is a skeleton
that is holding a Shield Mold, which is our second mold item. Feel free to loot this room, but
don't go into the door on the southern part of this room. Inside is a group of enemies that we
don't want to fight on our own and it's really not worth the hassle of bringing everyone else up
here. Teleport Karlach back to the "Undedark - Ancient Forge" waypoint to rejoin the group.
From here to the southwest there is a group of Animated Armors that we'll fight. You can
ambush them from a distance and they won't pose much of an issue. Just don't fight near the
lava. Near where these enemies were there is a pathway leading down towards the lava. Jump
over the flowing lava to reach the glowing Mithril Vein. Attack this and pick up the Mithril Ore
that is dropped. Once more go back to the "Undedark - Ancient Forge" waypoint.
This time we'll follow the long narrow staircase leading south. Jump across the gap and to the
left you should see another large Mithril Vein. Don't go running towards that just yet as there's a
group ofLava Mephits lying in ambush. I would recommend sending in either Tav or Karlach by
themselves and having Shadowheart cast Sanctuary on them. Send that person into the ambush
while the rest of the party waits on the staircase. Like the Mephits you fought previously, these
too explode on death. Once you kill enough a second wave will spawn, but if you kept the rest of
your party up on the stairs you should be able to pick them off before the overwhelm you. Once
that fight is done, make your way over to break the Mithril Vein to claim your second piece of
Mihtril Ore. Further down the staircase is a boss fight, but before you do that we have a few
things to do. By now you should be level 6, so let's do some leveling up.
Head back to camp and next we're going to dismiss Shadowheart for the upcoming boss fight.
Yes, you read that right. By recruiting a specific Hireling, we can actually one-shot the boss. Go
over to Withers and ask to recruit a Hireling. We'll specifically want to get Danton, the Druid.
Level him up fully to level 6 and he'll have access to the Owlbear form which is crucial to our
plan. Regroup back at the "Underdark - Ancient Forge" and use your secondShort Rest to just
top everyone's health up. Go down the long set of stairs and jump across the first gap. From here
split up your party into two groups, Tav/Karlach and Gale/Danton. Tav/Karlach will jump over to
the mechanical platform and Gale/Danton will stay here on the stairs in the same area where you
probably attacked the Lava Mephits from, just looking over the southern end. With Tav place
aMithril Ore in the Crucible and the Shield Mold to the Mold Chamber. Go over and interact with
the"Forge Lever", causing the platform to sink down.
Split Tav and Karlach up. Move Tav to the east, next to the "Lava Valve". Move Karlach to the
opposite area of the platform, to the circle area on the western end. At this point I will describe
the fight, but I recommend reading it and then watching the subsequent video to make sure you

<<TABLE>>
Tav
  Spellbook: • Magic Weapon

Karlach
  • Nothing to Choose.

Gale
  Spells: • Enlarge/ Reduce

Shadowheart
  Spellbook: • Spirit Guardians
<</TABLE>>

know the right process here. Have Tav interact with the "Lava Valve" to trigger lava to flood the
arena and summon the boss. Have Karlach use her spear throw to attack the boss, causing it to
target her. You may have to wait until the second turn for it to start moving. You essentially want
to kite it over to the platform Karlach is on. Once the boss is in position, swap to your second
group. Turn on Turn-Based mode to give you ample time. Have Gale castEnlarge on Danton and
then have Danton use Wild Shape: Owlbear. He's not done yet though. Use the Crushing Flight
ability to essentially body slam the boss from the top turnbuckle WWE style. The key here is you
want the outer attack ring to highlight the boss, don't directly hit it with the center circle. The
principle here is the fall damage and enlarged status boosts the attack's damage enough to one-
shot the boss. As promised, here's a video showing the strategy:
With the boss dead the forge is finally primed for use after the lave heating it up. Hitting the
"Forge Lever" once more will cause Adamantine Shield to be forged. Grab the shield and you
can place theSplint Mold (Heavy) in the "Mold Chamber" with the other Mythril Ore in the
"Crucible". Get your characters to safety before using the "Lava Valve" again. Then hit the
"Forge Lever" once more while lava is present and the Adamantine Splint Armor is yours to claim
once the lava recedes. Regroup at the camp and find Danton next to Withers. Speak to him and
dismiss him, then add Shadowheart back. Give the shield we just forged to Shadowheart and the

chestpiece to Tav. That's a wrap for this area! You can make a quick pitstop at the "Underdark -
Myconid Colony" waypoint to hand in Nere's head to Sovereign Spaw. Doing this will cause Spaw
to unlock a little treasure room. It should be marked on your map, but there is an entryway in a
wall of vines near where the dwarf vendor is. Go inside here to claim some additional loot. That's
enough for today, so you can go ahead and use your Long Rest. There won't be any night events
when you sleep.
Day 8
Here are the plans for today. We'll be chasing after the Githyanki Creche.
● Morning Buffs
○ Kobolds (x12)
○ Gremishka (x9)
● Short Rest
○ Eagles (x2)
○ Guardian of Faith
○ Ghustil Stornugoss
● Short Rest
○ Kith'rak Therezzyn and Githyanki guards (x4)
○ Ch'r'ai W'wargaz, Githyanki guards (x2), and wolves (x2)
○ Lady Esther
Before we do our buffs we're going to bring Lae'zelinto the party to help with a conversation.
Swap out Karlach for Lae'zel and don't worry about leveling her up, we only need her for one
conversation. From camp travel to the "Waukeen's Rest" waypoint. Take the main path in front of
the settlement west and soon you'll come across a wooden structure that you can walk under.
Here's you'll see an unfortunate group come across a Githyanki patrol. Approach the scene to
talk to them yourself and be careful with your choices. One wrong move and you have to deal
with this Githyanki group yourself and let me tell you, they pack a punch. With our passive buffs
at this point we automatically get a +10 bonus and this route only makes us contend with a DC of
10, so unless you roll a critical failure, you can sail through this conversation.
● Nod to Lae'zel. Go ahead.
● [Persuasion] Mouth a silent command to Lae'zel: 'play along'.
Warp back to camp and swap out Lae'zel for Karlach. After leaving the camp now would be a
good time to do your morning buff routine of Mage Armor, Aid (tier 3), and Elixir of Hill Giant
Strength(just on Karlach). Loot the bodies left by the Githyanki patrol and make your way west.
You'll be prompted to enter the Mountain Pass. The 'loose ends' warning may seem scary, but
you can ignore it. Shortly down the path there will be a "Treilka Crags" waypoint to the right of
the road that you don't want to miss. Here the path will split, follow the path to the right. To the
left is an annoying group of undead that aren't worth fighting. As you follow the path right,
further to the right you should see a camp where Lady Esther is hanging out. She's trying to get
a Githyanki egg from the nearby Creche, agree to help her out. If you still have thatOwlbear Egg
you can try to pass it off to her, but don't bother burning an Inspiration point. Gather up whatever
loot you want to sell to as Lady Esther doubles as a vendor. She actually has a really good
chestpiece and gloves for Karlach that you don't want to miss - The Graceful Cloth and Gloves of

Cinder and Sizzle. Buy those and any other supplies you'd like.
From here continue following the path north and you'll see a cable car station. If you pass the
Strength check of 15 on the wheel, you can bring the cable car up to you. If you fail on all your
characters, you can go to the east and down to jump across a gap leading north. This will lead to
the same spot as the cable car, but be careful asknockback traps are littered around this path.
Further north you'll get to the monastery and unlock the "Rosymorn Monastery" waypoint. After
a cutscene between some Githyanki and captured gnomes, the way forward is locked and you
can't picklock it. Look to the left and you'll see a broken window that you can climb through. In
this side room a drunk kobold will walk in and collapse. Be careful in this area! The next room is
littered with explosive barrels and the Kobolds explode on death when killed with fire. Pickup the
Firewine Barrel in this side room and attack the sleeping kobold in front of you. The
recommended strategy is to fire off ranged attacks from the doorway and hunker down in this
side room. This should wake up and lure all of the kobolds into this room where you can either
pick them off as they funnel in or hit them with an area attack. In the larger room there are a total
of 7 Firewine Barrels to pick up and send to camp. Today is the day we finally use some of our
barrels, so the more the merrier! Make sure to loot all of the kobolds as one of them drops
theCeremonial Mace which is an item we need for a puzzle in this area.
In the back of the room is a hole in the wall you can walk through. Jump across to a ledge and
traverse you way up to where you can jump onto a courtyard type area. Ahead there are some
wooden boards that you can use a basic attack to break through. Walk forward and there will be
a door to your right. Open it and stay outside for now. Inside are a nest ofgremishka which are a
rodent type enemy that can transform into other creatures if you don't kill them fast enough.
They only have 20hp each though, so you should be able to tear through them fast enough by
luring them outside. Inside this room is some loot along with another Firewine Barrel. You can use
your first Short Rest of the day here.
Go back out to the hallway and venture east. You'll see the path split north and east. North will
be a puzzle that we'll need two more items for, so jump across the gap to the east. Around the
corner you'll see vines you can climb up to the rooftop section. At the top you'll find an the bird
nest with two eagles. One character will get put into a conversation with one eagle. Swap to
another character to get into a conversation with the other. Then with a third party member,
attack one of the eagles. The eagles can knock you off the ledge, so be mindful of your
positioning. Also they can summon reinforcements, so I recommend killing them quick. In the
nest you'll find another item that we need for a puzzle, theCeremonial Warhammer.
Climb back down the vines and go through the door to the south east. Immediately to the north
will be a crumbling wall that Karlach can punch down. Inside this room will be a Guardian of
Faith. Fortunately we can cheese this fight a bit by firing range attacks through the broken wall.
As long as you use ranged attacks from outside the room, the enemy actually won't attack at all.
Inside you'll find the last puzzle item, the Ceremonial Battleaxe. Make your way back to where
the path split and enter the room to the north. Here are four pedestals and one of which has the
Ceremonial Longsword on. We want to place the three other ceremonial weapons that we picked
up on the open pedestals. To properly solve the puzzle you want the following items placed on

the pedestals:
● Northwest: Ceremonial Longsword (already placed)
● Northeast: Ceremonial Warhammer
● Southeast: Ceremonial Mace
● Southwest: Ceremonial Battleaxe
Solving this opens a grate in the northern end of the room where you can loot a note that'll
update your journal and the Dawnmaster's Crest which we will need to get an upcoming
Legendary weapon. Make your way back to where you broke down the wall to fight the Guardian
of Faith and follow the nearby broken stairs down to go further below. At the end of this room and
to the left there will be a barricade that you can break your way through. There is a nearby door
that leads you to a long hallway. Once you go through this door, directly ahead in the corner will
be a Grease Bottle. Pick this up for a backup plan later in the area. Loot your way through the
hallway and take the door at the other end that leads further down. This will lead you to the
Monastery basement where the Githyanki have built an encampment.
● I'm on your side! Captain Voss sent me to find an item for you.
● Produce the artifact as evidence.
Shadowheart won't be a fan of this route, but it removes having to pass any DC 18 roll that could
turn sour fast. Walk forward to see the path split in three different ways. First we'll go to the west
and take the left path. This will lead into a dormitory area with another room in the back with an
infirmary in the back. Go into the infirmary where you'll seeGhustil Stornugoss working in the
corner. Make sure the door behind you is closed as we're going to fight her and we don't want to
piss off the Creche (yet). I was able to one-shot her with Karlach usingFlurry of Blows: Topple, so
you should be able to make short work of her. Loot the area, especially the three Mind Flayer
Parasite Specimen scattered around the room and the Nautiloid Tank. Take this time to unlock
the "Luck of the Far Realms" perk for Shadowheart and both the "Transfuse Health" / "Shield of
Thralls" perks for Tav. You can go ahead and use your second Short Rest while you're here.
Go back to the hallway and take the other path to the west. This will take you to the githyanki
hatchery where we can get a egg to hand over soon. Split Tav off from the group and jump up to
the cliff, but be careful as knock-back bombs are hidden up here. Make your way over to the
scientist overlooking the area, Varsh Ko'kuu. Making these choices will net you access to the
lone githyanki egg:
● I wanted to see the hatchery. I didn't expect it to look so empty.
● What will happen to this egg if it doesn't hatch?
● [Persuasion]Why risk the situation at all? Give it to me - I'll take care of it.
● I'll raise it as if it's my own flesh and blood.
If you failed getting this, we still have our backupOwlbear Egg. If you did succeed, Varsh will give
you some boots that make you immune to acid surfaces. Put those on, jump down, collect the
egg, and make your way back to the group. Once you're back to safety, swap your boots back.
Now go east until you find a waypoint portal and through the doorway to the south you'll see a
path leading to a group of githyanki in a rocky area. One of which is a vendor, A'jak'nir Jeera.
The vendor has two very good items that we want to buy, the Knife of the Undermountain King

and Gloves of Dexterity.
Since you're on Honor mode, this will cost you a nice chunk of money. Some might be of the
mindset of killing the vendor for the items, but the loot that vendors drop on death is
randomized. This is why I personally don't bother with that tactic. With those two items and
arrows bought, give the gloves to Tav and the knife to Gale as his offhand (with the Spellsparkler
being the main hand.) After the next segment this vendor will become hostile, so this is your only
opportunity to buy anything from her.
Now's the time to finally start using some of our explosive barrels! We'll be venturing into an area
that blocks access to our camp, so we're going to load up a bunch on one character. While this
will make them walk slowly for a bit, this is a worthwhile tradeoff. Go to Camp and grab all your
Oil Barrelsand Nautiloid Tanks. The other barrel types we'll use in Act 2/3. For context I had 15 Oil
Barels and 6 Nautiloid Tanks, which were split up into two sections. If you need to substitute in
other barrels to meet that number, please do. Also, two last things to make sure you have - the
Dawnmaster's Crest that you picked up back in the Monastery and something that applies the
Grease effect, like the Grease Bottlewe picked up earlier.
With that all taken care of, walk into the next room for a cutscene. After which approach Kith'rak
Therezzyn and make the following choices:
● I was granted entry by your sentries. They told me to seek the Inquisitor.
● I have important information.
● I have what you're looking for.
● Produce the artefact.
Follow her to gain entry passed the energy gate. In this hallway, right before the bridge we'll set
our first trap. Here is a screenshot showing where I placed the barrels and which I used. You
essentially want to spread out seven explosive tanks evenly in the little area where two sets of
stairs converge, but before the last set of steps leading directly to the bridge.
Across the bridge we'll enter the room with a boss fight. Fortunately the fight doesn't start until
we talk to Ch'r'ai W'wargaz in the center of the room. Here we'll place all the remaining barrels
that we brought. We definitely want to immediately kill off the boss, but we should try to pick off
a few other enemies to make things easier. I would recommend the Fighters up near the entrance
to the beginning. Place six barrels directly around the boss with a trail of them leading up the
stairs to the Fighters. Here is a video showcasing the barrel and party placement:

Don't bother talking to the boss, just fire off a Fire Bolt to a barrel and you should be able to mop
up the remaining enemies. Once the fight is over, you'll be graced by a projection of Vlaakith,
grand leader of the Githyanki. You actually want to be careful here as the wrong dialogue choice
results in a game over. Pretty much you want to be respectful and not insult her:
● Kneel.
● I didn't steal it, it just... found me.
● I will do as you wish.
Before we do anything, let's handle going to the astral plane. While we could skip entering, doing
so will get us some extra loot/experience and not risk royally pissing off Lae'zel. Interact with the
planecaster in the middle of the room and accept the prompt to go. Jump down to the area below
and loot the area before entering the swirling purple cave. While Vlaakith tasked us with killing
the Dream Visitor, we can't actually do that, so make whatever choices you want.
Once you're done go through the new portal outside to return back to our original plane. Do a
looting pass through this room and the side rooms to the left and right. The notable loot here are
the Diadem of Arcane Synergy found on Ardent Jhe'rezath and the Necklace of Elemental
Augmentation in aDisplay Case found in the eastern side room. Give both of these items to Gale.
Go to the western side room and you'll see two statues. You need to rotate both of them three
times, but the left one requires passing an Athletics check. This is where your grease item comes
in. If that statue gets jammed, use the grease on it and you'll be able to rotate it freely. Once both
statues have been rotated, a hidden passageway behind two barrels against a wall. Move the

barrels and make your way through. Upon entering the next area you'll see an "Energy Source"
near the energy barrier. Destroy it to progress.
At this point split off Karlach from the group and take control of her. Enter Turn-Based mode and
go into the next section. Here you'll see a trap you can disarm. Failure to do so leaves a strong
chance of getting Karlach killed. To try to prevent that, keep along the wall as best as possible.
After disarming that, climb up a nearby ledge and loop around to find another "Energy Source"
in the tunnel. As soon as you drop down the ledge there will be another trap to your left. Do the
same thing you did before to safely disarm it. There is one last "Energy Source"to destroy. From
here there should be a ledge to the south where it can be found down below. Go into the final
chamber and approach the center pedestal. Insert the Dawnmaster's Crest to safely retrieve The
Blood of Lathander, which is a perfect Legendary weapon for Shadowheart that she'll actually
use for the rest of the game.
Make your way back to the boss room and then the bridge we crossed over. Here Kith'rak
Therezzynwill set up an ambush with some wolves and githyanki. Using another Fire Bolt to set
off the explosives should nearly kill off everyone one. Gale's Metamagic: Distant Spell will allow
you to easily hit a barrel outside of the enemy detection range. Loot the room she was originally
in and once you make it back to the waypoint portal this would be a good point to leave the
creche. Travel back to the. "Treilka Crags" waypoint and head to Lady Esther's camp. Double
check you bought everything you want from her and attack her. We're mostly doing this so you
don't walk into a bad situation in Act 3 (save the Githyanki Egg for Act 3 for some extra gold). Or
you can give her the egg and kill her to take it back, your choice really.
With that, we are essentially done for the day. Teleport to the "Blighted Village" waypoint to
trigger an event that will automatically use your Long Rest. It actually doesn't matter what
waypoint we travel to, as long as it's outside the Mountain Pass region. Instead of appearing
where you wanted to teleport, you will automatically appear at camp. This is exactly what we
wanted. At camp go speak toLae'zel:
● Tell Lae'zel what happened in the artefact. Vlaakith's mission was unteanable.
● I don't trust it, Lae'zel. On this, we see eye to eye.
● Leave.
Upon sleeping you'll get a cutscene of Kithrak Vossapproaching your bed. After hearing about
what happened at the Creche, he has come to offer an alliance, which we'll want to go along
with:
● Go on then. Speak.
● What are you asking of us, Voss?
● Vlaakith's led you astray. I believe him, and so should you.
Following that you can interact with your bed once more to end the day. One Act down, two to
go!
8. Honor Mode / Dark Urge Only - Act 2
Links to different sections of this guide covering all of Act 2:
● Day 9 - Last Light Inn and Moonlight Towers prison break

● Day 10 - Thorm family and Guantlet of Shar
● Day 11 - Siege of Moonrise Tower and Ketheric Thorm
Day 9
Here are the plans for today. We'll be venturing forward into the Shadow-cursed Lands of Act 2
and staging a prison break from the Moonrise Towers.
● Morning Buffs
○ Shadow Harper and Shadow Vestiges (x6)
○ Shadow-cursed Ravens (x12)
○ Fist Marcus and Winged Horrors (x6)
● Short Rest
○ Shadows attacking Rolan (x2)
○ Kar'niss and followers (x5)
○ Shadow enemies near mausoleum (x7)
○ Githyanki (x5)
● Short Rest
○ Prison Warden, guards (x7), and scrying eyes (x3)
Two things to save for the bit where you're defending the Inn. Save all of your Luck of the Far
Realm hits and Shield of Thralls.
Make your way to the "Underdark - Grymforge"waypoint and do your morning buff routine of
Mage Armor on Gale, Aid (tier 3), and Elixir of Hill Giant Strength on Karlach. Today has some
important battles, so we'll also use our last Soul Coin on Karlach and another Elixir on Tav. Head
east to where two drinking duergars were, they were blocking the elevator that we'll now be
taking. Up the stairs in the room will be a wizard in red robes. He'll approach you and you'll find
out he's an old acquaintance of Gale named Elminster Aumar. Choose the option to hear what
he has to say now and expend his dialogue options.
After that you can leave camp and continue where you left off. Go through the passageway to
arrive at the Act 2 area, the Shadow-Cursed Lands. There is an ongoing mechanic here with the
darkness where if you're exposed to it you'll take damage. Due to being a Shar follower,
Shadowheart is immune to this. To protect our other party members you can have Shadowheart
cast the Light cantrip on Tav and have Gale cast it on himself. By both of them having it, this
should protect the whole party until we get to safety.
Continue the path you're on forward as it leads down. After you cross a bridge, follow the split
path to the right. You'll encounter a group of NPCs walking by torchlight. A cutscene will play and
want to choose to help them. These enemies are weak to Radiant damage, so Shadowheart can
be especially useful. After the fight Harper Lassandra will mention an Inn down the road that's
serving as a sanctuary.
Continue following the path southwest as is goes down and you'll see a raven corpse next to a
decrepit building. DO NOT INTERACT WITH IT YET.This will surround you by a bunch of ravens
that will surprise your party. While they only have 1 hp each, they can cause some serious

damage due to there numbers. Fortunately we can massively cheese this fight with Shadowheart.
First split everyone up and stack them on top of the raven corpse. Swap to Shadowheart and use
the Sprit Guardians (Radiant)spell. If you haven't used this spell before, essentially anything that
steps within the radius around Shadowheart will take damage, instantly killing any raven that gets
close. With Shadowheart interact with the raven corpse and let all the ravens fly to their death as
they charge at your party. Following this you should be level 7, so let's go ahead and level
everyone up.
Follow the path and to the right you'll see a giant sphere of light protecting an area. Walk inside
to meet the survivors of this area. After a cutscene you'll be allowed access where there's a
handful of things to do. Immediately next to the barricade where some guards are posted is a
Firewine Barrelyou can take. Next, talk to Quartermaster Talli in the nearby tent to buy the Cloak
of Protection andIncandescent Staff. Give the Cloak to Tav and replace Gale's Spellsparkler with
this new staff as it gives you a free use of the Fireball spell.
At this point in addition to buying any Potionsthat you want at any vendors, at this point I
recommend buying any "bomb" type items. Whether it's Smokepowder Bombs, Holy Water,Acid
Vials, etc. Anything that does damage when thrown. Also keep an eye out for any Scrolls of Haste
or Scrolls of Mirror Image as both of them are very useful. We want to eventually build up a large
amount of throwable explosives for later in Act 3. You don't need to go super overboard, but if
you have spare gold to spend, it'll definitely help.
Move towards the center of the courtyard to find another barrel near the water fountain.
Continue north to the stables where you'll see an Oil Barrel to grab and inside you'll meet
Dammon again. With the second Infernal Iron in hand that we held onto, speak to him to fix
Karlach's engine issue as best as possible to get a nice passive buff on her. Speak to Dammon
again if you have any extra irons or alloys to get some extra loot. If you have means of speaking
to animals, use that now as you can find the Strange Ox from Act 1 in the stable right next to
Dammon. Pass the [Persuasion] check to set things up for Act 3. Make your way outside and find

<<TABLE>>
Tav
  Spellbook: • Bless

Karlach
  • Nothing to Choose.

Gale
  Spells: • Counterspell Replace Spell: • Out: Enlarge • In: Fireball

Shadowheart
  Spellbook: • Mass Healing Word
<</TABLE>>

the staircase that leads to the upper floor of the stables. There will be a locked chest with some
extra loot you can snag. Head into the main inn building and get ready to talk to a bunch of
people.
As you enter, make your way to the right into a large side room. Here you'll find Counsellor
Florrick who you may remember we saved from the burning building in Act 1. Speak to her to
progress that questline. Up against the wall is a row of beds, one of which has an unconscious
Art Cullagh. Interact with him to learn more from the soldier watching over him and agree to look
into it. Back into the lobby of the building you'll see Mattis in the corner near the entrance. Talk
to him twice to unlock his wares and buy the Evasive Shoes to give to Tav.
Unlike other vendors you can just swipe everything around him without causing issue. Sitting
near the grill you'll find Alfira. Chat with her to learn a bit about what happened to the Tiefling
group and agree to help. Further west near the bar you'll findRolan getting drunk. Have a chat
with him to learn a bit more. Lastly you'll find Barcus Wroot in the southeast corner of this floor
in an alcove with a study. That handles everything downstairs. Once you go upstairs and speak to
Isobel you'll be locked into a major fight happening. One that leaves several important
characters vulnerable to dying.
The characters we need to make sure don't die in this fight are Isobel that is upstairs, and
bothAlfira and Rolan that are downstairs. I highly recommend saving here or forcing a cloud save
before progressing into the next fight.
To help ensure we keep everyone alive that we need to we'll split our party up a bit. Take our
party upstairs and place both Shadowheart and Gale outside the northern room, along the railing.
Shadowheart can be directly in front of the entryway, but move Gale a bit to the west, closer to
Rolan. Having Tav cast Shield of Thralls on Gale will be good as well. Gale's priority is to look
over all the Tieflings down below and assist them however possible. I recommend having Gale
nuke the enemy closest to Rolan before assisting the others down below. I don't think I've ever
seen an enemy target Alfira, but it may be possible, so don't completely ignore her. When you're
ready, start the conversation with Isobel. Lastly, have Gale use theTwinned Haste combo on
Karlach and Tav before having them run out to the north balcony to speak to Isobel. She'll give
your party a buff to keep you safe in the general darkness of the area and then an enemy will
appear. Do not let him take Isobel away.
Party priorities:
● Karlach - Kill Fist Marcus, then move on to nearby Winged Horrors.
● Tav - Kill Fist Marcus, then move on to nearby Winged Horrors.
● Shadowheart - Heal anyone in danger, otherwiseTurn Undead.
● Gale - Protect the Tieflings either from the railing or jump down if unable to hit enemies.
Here's a video showing the initial ambush so you can get familiar with all the enemy locations:

The enemies will try to swarm Isobel, so quickly killing Marcus would be smart. The "Luck of the
Far Realms" perk that everyone has will come in handy here. It is especially helpful on Tav when
you use aDivine Smite attack following it's use as the Smite will crit as well. With Haste on both
Karlach and Tav, you should be able to make short work of the immediate enemies near Isobel,
but make sure to keep a close eye on her. After the fight and subsequent cutscene is over, the
only real loot is from Fist Marcus who has a Mind Flayer Parasite Specimen. Go ahead and use
your first Short Restnow. Head downstairs and check on Rolan to make sure he's at full health. If
not, heal him. He's about to do something dumb and we're going to have to save him. Also, talk
to the Tielfing children and assure them that you'll bring Mol home.
Head outside and back to the bridge you crossed to enter this area. Here you'll talk to some
Harpersthat will propose ambushing some cultists. Agree and follow them to a broken down
building where you'll trigger a cutscene after speaking to one of the Harpers waiting for the
ambush. We're going to set up a unique scenario, so in the cutscene make these dialogue
choices:
● Clear your throat to make yourself known.
● The Absolute protected me.
● [Deception] The Absolute guided me to you. She said I was to take yours.
● Good. You may go now.
● [Intimidation] The Absolute wants you to go. Now!
This will send the group of enemies further into the darkness without the protection of their

lantern, which will we take advantage of in a moment. After interacting with the Moonlantern you
can choose whether or not to free the captured pixie inside of it. If you do free it, ask for
something in return and it will grant you a blessing to venture passed the heaviest darkness.
Otherwise just use the lantern for safe passage. Continue to follow the path south. After crossing
a root bridge the path will split. To the right is a shadow wall that you can now traverse through,
but behind the catapult is a rock ledge you can climb down. Enter Hide Party mode to get as
close as possible to the shadows that are about to ambush Rolan. If it helps, here is where he's
located:
Save him and send him back to the Inn. To be safe, make these dialogue choices:
● What are you even doing here?
● You were trying to help your family - you're too hard on yourself.
Make your way back to that shadow wall and cross a bridge going west. You'll enter the Reithwin
Tollhouse but I strongly advise just following this path and running through it. There is a boss
roaming around here that we don't want to mess with just yet. As you exit the tollhouse, this is
where we'll see the fate of Kar'niss and that group of enemies we stole the lantern from. They've
all been claimed by the shadows! Enter Hide Party mode to try and catch them by surprise. If it
helps, here is where they're located:
The reason we did this though is because we can make Kar'niss an ally by using Control
Undeadcourtesy of our Oathbreaker Paladin build on Tav. By making Kar'niss be consumed by
the shadows that has turned him into an Undead. You won't be able to actually control Kar'niss,
but he'll faithfully follow us around and attack along with us. The other enemies aren't
noteworthy. From this location, just north of you is another group of enemies guarding a
mausoleum of sorts. While we're here, we can take care of them. Try to sneak up, but chances
are Kar'niss will start attacking. If that happens it shouldn't rope your main party into combat, so
you can at least pick off a few shadow enemies. After looting the bodies, follow the road west.
Eventually you'll see a pathway that bridges over the road, which is where a Githyanki patrol will
ambush you. It'd be wise to take care of them when we have Kar'niss with us. As you get close,
enter Hide Party mode to try and position the group up near the bridge to attack the enemies
that appear there. If it helps here is a video showing my approach:

The Githyanki can pack a punch, so best to focus down the leader and then the ranged enemies
as their shots can scatter and hit multiple people. If Kar'niss didn't die during this fight, go ahead
and kill him off. The Control Undead ability can bug out when reloading, causing him to become
hostile again, so I don't want you to get into a sticky situation because of him. Our main goal was
to bring him along as far as we could to tank some hits for us, so mission accomplished. After the
fight, go west a bit until you unlock the "Road to Baldur's Gate" waypoint for use in the future.
Retrace your path and go to the Moonrise Tower marker to the south on your map. Now would
be a good time to use your second Short Rest.
Once you cross the threshold onto the bridge,Mizora will make an appearance, agree to help her.
Once you get to the gate you can easily talk your way past the guards. You'll now be in the main
floor with some vendors, but we'll get to them later. Continue forward through the large doors to
start another cutscene. For this playthrough the choices here don't matter, but here's what I
picked:
● Don't kill them! They're loyal followers of the Absolute.
● What makes you so sure I'll enjoy the judgement?
● I'm really allowed to do anything?
● Put aside your torments. Free them.
If you knocked out Minthara instead of killing her, she will appear here and be sent to the prison.
Once that is over, go up the stairs until you reach the second floor. Join the cultists to the left for
another cutscene.

● [Persuasion] They won't get far. Let the curse take them, and save us the job of cleaning
up their innards.
● [Intimidation] Lash out with the atrocities that you committed.
● [Deception] My anger outweighs my love, but it's directed toward Her enemies.
● Good for you. How do I get what I want?
● I live to serve. What do I need to do?
● Understood - I'm ready to head out.
Make your way east and through the study area there will be a locked door. Disciple Z'rell will
have given you the key to enter here, which is Balthazaar's study. The major thing of note here is
the large bookcase along the western wall. Interacting with the wrong book will trigger a trap.
Looking at the bookshelf, interact with the"Bookshelf Labelled 'Musty Tomes'" which is the
second from the top interaction on the right side. This will reveal an Ancient Altar right next to
the bookshelf. Grab a Heart from the nearby altar to the south and place it in this one, revealing a
secret room. Loot this area and the rest of the study.
Before leaving, make sure you pull the lever near the back door that leads to a balcony. This will
make it easier for us during the end of Act 2.
Make you way back downstairs, specifically that main room before you met Ketheric Thorm. In
this room are two vendors here - Lann Tarv and Roah Moonglow, the latter whom you'll
recognize from the Goblin Camp in Act 1. Closer to the middle, along the side, you'll first see
Lann Tarv who is a bugbear. Speak to him and we can actually get three free Soul Coins by
making these choices:
● What did the person want with Karlach?
● Let's have the Soul Coins, then.
● Fine. Get on with it then.
● Next coin, please.
● Next coin, please.
Before trading with him, speak to him again and make these choices to get a better deal with his
trades:
● You'll never peddle your wares with that attitude.
● You want a warrior? Here I am.
● [Oathbreaker][intimidation] Those who'd bind another to their will whisper my name in
nightmares.
If you have plenty of gold, I definitely recommend buying the Halberd of Vigilance along with any
potions/scrolls or other consumable items that you'd like. Obviously this weapon should go to
Tav. Further to the side towards the corner of this section you'll see Roah with her guards. Buy
whatever you feel like. There are two last NPCs here that we should talk to. Go back to the center
of this room and look towards the stairs leading into the throne room. To the left you should see
a door, go into that room. Off to the side near her work equipment you'll see Araj Oblodra. She
mostly has potions and materials to sell, as well as a healthy amount of gold, so take the time to
sell things to all three of these vendors. Lastly, to the east you'll find a kitchen with some gnolls.
Swap to Karlach to give us a roll advantage. Success here will get you an extra Mind Flayer

Parasite Specimen. If you're capped on Inspiration points, you can burn one here if needed. If
not, don't bother if you don't get the roll on the first try. Not that big of a lose. Speak toLinsella:
● I've never seen a tame gnoll before.
● Gnolls are beasts, plain and simple.
● You decide.
● [Wisdom] Compel the gnolls to pulp their master.
If you are successful, you should now have two Illithid upgrade points. Use them on Shadowheart
to unlock the "Tranfuse Health" and "Shield of Thralls"perks. Back track to where Roah is and go
through the door south of you. In this room you'll see some stairs taking you to the prison area.
We will now be doing a prison break to save a bunch of people, but more importantly to get a
very powerful robe on Gale.
Immediately follow the path west. As it bends you'll soon see a bridge leading to the central
tower. Head in there to find The Warden. Wait until she's away from the levers near her desk as
one of those can set off an alarm. Attack her and keep an eye out for any Scrying Eyes patrolling
into the tower. Remember, they can easily be killed with Thunder damage. Once the Warden is
dead make your way up the ladder and quickly dispose of the Scrying Eye up here. Loot
everything you want, but make sure to get Wulbren's Hammer that is on a table upstairs. This will
be needed for part of the prison break. The Warden also drops the Spellcrux Amulet, which is a
great amulet for Gale.
With the Warden killed, we'll make our way around the area killing every enemy. Leave the tower
and continue to the left until you see Zealot Nadi. Attack the Zealot and deal with any other
enemies you get the attention of. There are some patrols around this curved path, so be aware of
any sneaking up on you. Ignore the cells for now and make your way back to the start of the
prison area. Attack Adept Ghulenwhich will also get the attention of the two Zealotsguarding a
door. Lastly, there are two cultists in the southern room who are torturing Minthara if you spared
her. Either way, kill the two enemies in there.
Go back to the cells and speak to Lia who is at the front of one of them:
● Listen your brother is alive. He's in Last Light's Inn.
● To help. What can I do?
Move along to the other occupied cell and speak toWulbren Bongle:
● Shh. I'm going to get you out of here.
● [Persuasion] I know the Tieflings imprisoned here - I want to break you all out.
● Let's talk escape plan - what do you need?
Speak to him again and give him his hammer and tell him to start the escape. Go back to the
Warden's office and interact with the "Cell Two Lever". This will open the cell that was holding
the gnomes. Follow them through the hole and you'll find a dock with a boat. Eventually, the
gnomes will come back with the Tieflings and will start another conversation:
● Look to the east for the Last Light Inn. You'll be welcome there.
Head back to the "Last Light Inn" waypoint. Follow the narrow path that runs along to the north
of the safe area and you should see Danis reunite withBex. Chat with the for a small reward, then
go inside the inn. First, talk with Alfira to get some rewards, notably the Potent Robe which you
should immediately give to Gale. Speak to Barcus to let him know the escape was a success.

Follow him over to the over gnomes and talk with him again. Make whatever choices you want
and then chat withRolan to get your last reward. Before leaving though, check Rolan's health
once more. If it's not full, go ahead and heal him now as for some reason when we see him again
in Act 3 he isn't healed to full.
Before resting do pass through all the vendors to check for any consumables that you want to
stock up on (remember the important potions, bombs, arrows and scrolls previously mentioned).
At this point I was sitting around 10k in gold reserves, but your coffers may vary depending on
looting habits and difficulty. List of vendors to check out:
● Last Light Inn - Quartermaster Tallis, Dammon,Mattis, and Barcus
● Moonrise Towers - Lann Tarv, Roah Moonglow, and Araj Oblodra
With that, teleport to the "Moonrise Towers"waypoint and you can Long Rest to end the day.
Upon sleeping at camp you'll have another conversation with the Dream Visitor.
Day 10
Here are the plans for today. We'll be dealing with the Thorm family members and delving into
the Shar Gauntlet.
● Morning Buffs
○ Gerringothe Thorm
○ Captive shadows (x2)
○ Sisters Lidwin and Sidna
○ Shadow-cursed (x4) and Shadows (x3)
○ Malus Thorm
● Short Rest
○ Thisobald Thorm
○ Umbral Tremors (x3) and Dark Justicars (x5)
○ Umbral Tremors (x10) and Justicar (x1 but possibly more)
○ Cloaker
○ Balthazaar and Undead guards (x4)
● Short Rest
○ Clones of the party (x4)
○ Umbral Tremor and Justicars (x6)
○ Rat army and Lyrthindor
As a note for today, you'll want to save two tier 2 spell slots and one tier 3 spell slot on Gale for
specific uses. You will be using Knock to get through two doors and the tier 3 spell for Wall of
Fire (unlocking that today) during a specific fight.
For a comparison at the start of today I am sitting at 9 Elixirs and 3 Soul Coins. While up until
now it was situational to use a Soul Coin on Karlach and an additional elixir on Tav, it's safe to
fully fold them into the morning routine at this point if you have a similar amount. So that means
after you leave camp use Mage Armor on Gale, Aid (tier 4 now), Elixir on Hill Giant Strength on
both Karlach/Tav, Soul Coin on Karlach, and lastly Shield of Thralls on the characters of your
choice (if you haven't been doing so - reminder this cooldown resets every Short Rest).
From the "Moonrise Towers" waypoint head north to the mausoleum that was surrounded by

enemies. There is a puzzle here for us to solve by interacting with three plaques. The puzzle
solution is interacting with the North, West, and East plaques in that order. Doing so will open an
entryway to a hidden Sharran Sanctuary on the southern side of the structure. Inside there will
be statues that can grant a one "long rest" length buff to either Charisma, Wisdom, and
Intelligence. The one we care about is the Charisma one, which is in the middle of the bottom
floor. The Wisdom/Intelligence buffs aren't really useful to us, so do what you want regarding
those. The Charisma buff will come in handy for talking our way through three upcoming boss
fights. With that done, make your way back to the Reithwin Tollhouse that you walked through
yesterday. If you need a reminder, that was the building you walked through after crossing the
bridge from east to west after saving Rolan. Before proceeding, make sure you have at least two
Inspiration points stocked up, ideally, you want to be maxed. Otherwise make sure to save!
Find either some stairs or some broken rubble to make your way to the second floor, here you
should encounter Gerringothe Thorm. A conversation will start and by making these choices you
can completely skip the fight, but still get the experience/loot:
● Who are you?
● Toss the creature a gold piece.
● I don't hand out so much gold for so little in return.
● [Persuasion] Why stay in a rotted building? Take your gold and be free.
● [Intimidation] Not anymore.
Feel free to loot around the tollhouse as much as you want. The boss has some loot and will also
drop a good sum of gold near her body. Before leaving, go out the southern exit of the tollhouse
to find some stairs leading down to the docks. Once on ground level, turn around and face the
tollhouse to find a large door you can picklock. Go into this room and hit a button on the left wall
to reveal a secret room. Tucked away on a table here is a Soul Coinyou should grab. Make your
way back to theSharran Sanctuary from before and this time follow the road north. Here you'll
run into Arabella and her new powers:
● Arabella? You should be with your parents.
● I'll find your parents - you can count on me.
● [Whatever option sends her back to your camp]
Follow the path west. To the south you should see a building door you can enter. Inside here will
be Sister Lidwin trying to look after two corpses, which are Arabella's parents. Make whatever
choices you want when talking to her. You can kill the Sister for some easy experience and loot.
Before going further into the building, go back to where you met Arabella and kill the two
Shadows that she captured for some easy experience. Double back to the dead parents and go
through the nearby door into the main hall of the House of Healing. There will be two sets of
doors in front of you, one directly ahead and another to your right. Take note of these. Before
going either of these directions, venture south to find Sister Sidna by a desk. Kill her for some
more easy experience.
Go back up to those two double doors and go through the west one leading outside. This will
lead outside where you can ambush a pack of Shadows and Shadow-cursed enemies. Enter
Hide Party mode and fire off a ranged attack to hopefully land a surprise attack. Nothing to
really note with these enemies, just focus down whoever you want. Go back inside the House of

Healing and get ready to go through the main double doors leading north. In here will be another
boss fight that we want to make very specific dialogue choices to set things up. Before going
down the hallway I recommend using the Twinned Haste combo on Tav and Karlach in case
things go bad. Better to be safe than sorry here.
Venture down the walkway into the next room and here you'll see Malus Thorm in the middle of
an operation. Just like Gerringothe Thorm, you can resolve this situation without fighting at all.
Make these choices:
● A student, yes. Do please enlighten me.
● [Persuasion] The sisters aren't ready. They'll make me sick instead of curing me.
● [Persuasion] Why not have them hone their skills on each other?
● [Persuasion] I would rather acquaint myself - if you show me how.
The key piece of loot here is the Battered Lute found on the boss. Loot all the bodies on the
bottom floor and the upper one. There's also a back room and vines leading to an upper floor for
even more loot if you want. Now is a good time to use your first Short Rest and after this fight
you should be level 8:
Go back outside and follow the path north. Eventually you'll run into Raphael and you can make
whatever choices you want. Up on a nearby path is the "Grand Mausoleum" waypoint, so make
sure to have that unlocked for future use. Before we progress further, we're going to do a little
backtracking for some extra experience. First travel to the "Last Light Inn" waypoint and go
speak to the bed ridden man. Exhaust all the dialogue options and you should be able to play the
lute that you recently obtained to wake him up, granting you some experience. Next if you have a
few remaining Inspiration points as a windfall, head to the"Moonrise Towers" waypoint. Head
west into "The Waning Moon" tavern. On the lower floor will be the barkeep Thisobald Thorm.
Just like the other two "Thorm" bosses we encountered, you can completely negate his fight by

<<TABLE>>
Tav
  Feat: • Great Weapon Master
  Spellbook: • Compelled Duel

Karlach
  Feat: • Alert

Gale
  Spells: • Lightning Bolt
  Replace Spell: • Out: Cloud of Daggers • In: Wall of Fire
  Feat: • War Caster

Shadowheart
  Feat: • War Caster
  Spellbook: • Animate Dead
<</TABLE>>

making the right dialogue choices:
● What is it that you're serving?
● Pick up a tankard.
● [Saving Throw] Drink with the Brewer.
● [Performance] Choose any of the story options.
● [Saving Throw] Do as he says. Drink.
● [Performance] Choose any of the story options.
● [Saving Throw] Steel yourself and drink.
Like with the tollhouse, loot however much you want. Leave here and teleport to the "Grand
Mausoleum" waypoint. Continue north to find theMausoleum Entrance. There is some minor loot
in the side rooms, including the Vivacious Cloak in a locked chest in the eastern chamber, which
you can give to Gale. After grabbing that, head to the northern chamber to solve a puzzle. There
are buttons under three portraits and you want to hit them in the correct order - Moonrise
Towers, Grief, and lastly General. This will open a passage leading to a floating platform, taking
you to the Gauntlet of Shar. Venture down the hallway and into a chamber. You'll see a purple
glowing around a pedestal, but if you just walk forward you'll be knocked back by an invisible
force field. Be careful of where you walk as you could set off a room wide darkness trap. Here is
a quick video showing you the pathing of how to get past the force field:

The door forward will be unlocked. Up ahead you'll get a dialogue scene with some animated
skeletons, who will then be ambushed by some Justicarenemies. I highly recommend focusing
on theUmbral Tremors as they will spawn more Justicars every turn. A word of warning though
for these Justicar enemies. They will actually reflect Radiant damage back to you, so be mindful
of what you use against them. Once that fight is over follow the path west down and then up
some stairs until you reach a larger room. Along the way you should discover the"Gauntlet of
Shar" waypoint. Here you'll fight another group of Justicars, but there will be multiple waves of
Umbral Tremors spawning. If you're quick to destroy the tremors, this should be an easy fight
without any enemies appearing through the portals. Before continuing west where Balthazar is,
go south first.
Loot what you want in the first set of rooms and go through the next door, leading you into a
cavern. To the right you'll see a small set of stairs. Enter Hide Party mode and get close to the
top of the stairs. Off in the distance is a stealth enemy waiting to ambush you. Specifically it is on
top of the lower mushroom that is near the chest. To turn things in our favor do the following.
Enter Turn-Based modeand throw an Alchemist's Fire onto of the mushroom to reveal the
Cloaker. Any other projectile or attack with an area effect should work just fine if need be. Fire
off ranged attacks and it's very possible to kill off the enemy before it can actually do anything.
Here's a video showing the ambush:

Sadly there's nothing special in the chest, but take your minor spoils. Make your way back to that
main room and proceed west to come face to face withBalthazar. Play nice with the dialogue as
we don't want to antagonize him, instead we'll be setting up another barrel surprise. Ambushing
him here is a lot better than fighting where he confronts you down the road. After the
conversation, head to camp and grab 15 Firewine Barrels. Here is a video showing how I set them
up:
Place a majority of them near Balthazar and his hulking bodyguard with the remaining trailing
near the other undead enemies. I recommend splitting the party into two groups, one in the back
and one in the front. The Firewine Barrels have an extra perk of summoning Kobolds. They'll
likely die from subsequent explosions, but if they survive, they'll be a handy distraction for any
surviving enemies. When you're ready, use a fire attack to set the barrels off. That should do a
lot of damage to Balthazar and his minions, if not killing him outright. Loot everything in this
room and the previous one if you hadn't already. In the room where you fought the second round
of Umbral Tremors, there is a Vault Door to the north of the room. This door has a DC of 30 to
picklock, but if you grabbed the Knock spell on Gale as recommended, you can get in with just
expending a Tier 2 spell slot. Before continuing, go ahead and use your second Short Rest.

Travel to the "Gauntlet of Shar" waypoint and go down the set of stairs to the north. There will be
a series of five trials/puzzles to solve here. On your first door to the left will be the first trial - the
"Soft-step trial". Interact with the Sacrificial Bowl and a short cutscene will play. Shadowheart
will volunteer to offer some blood, so let her. This will start the trial. The premise is to navigate
the pathways without being spotted by two patrolling shadows. If you get caught you'll be sent
back to the beginning. We can easily solve this by using a Potion of Invisibility (or anything else
that grants the effect). Take control of Karlach and separate her from the group. Make her
invisible and go through the door farthest to the right. When you hit a wall there should be a
button to your right you can push. Push it to open a pathway and continue forward. Once you go
up the stairs you can picklock the door and claim the Umbral Gem to solve the puzzle. Interact
with the teleporter to rejoin the group. Continue down the hallway to find another door leading to
the"Self-Same Trial".
Same as before interact with the Sacrificial Bowl to start the trial. This is a combat one where you
have to fight clones of your party. There is a way to essentially negate this by only making one
clone spawn with no weapons, but we want as much experience as possible so we can get to
level 9 before fighting Ketheric. I recommend entering Hide Party mode as you enter the next
room so you can get a read on where the enemies are.
Be careful who you attack with who here. There will be a penalty debuff called "Cheater's
Folly"added to anyone that attacks the wrong clone. This debuff lowers The afflicted character's
ability scores by 1 and it can stack up to three times. This will last until you Long Rest, and the
crucial thing here is to make sure your Tav never attacks any of the other clones that isn't theirs!
The reason why is because there are some crucial rolls at the end of today and we don't want
any negative modifiers on Tav. If things go bad you could potentially lose one of your main party
members, drastically complicating this playthrough.
Try to land a surprise attack to take out one or two of them before they can even attack. One of
the clones will drop the Killer's Sweetheart ring, which you can give to Karlach. Personally I
replaced her Ring of Flinging with this new ring. Another Umbral Gem will drop as well, so make
sure to grab that too. Take the teleporter back to the beginning and continue down the hallway.
Down the stairs and directly ahead you'll find our third trial - the "Faith-Leap Trial".
This one can be frustrating. You have to traverse and invisible path across a chasm and after
failing three times your character will die upon failure. On the floor in front of the sacrificial bowl
is a floor mural portraying the correct path. Fortunately there is a super easy way to navigate
this. Start the trial and go to the bottom right side of the right staircase with a character by
themselves. Hit
to enter target mode and move your cursor over the bottom right corner of the final platform
with the gem on it. Hit

to direct your character there and they should now automatically run to the end without issue.
Here is a video showing the execution:
On the last platform is the third Umbral Gem to pick up. Regroup and continue down the hallway
to find a fourth room, the Silent Library. The Librarian, which is the purple orb in the middle of
the room, is the source of a room-wide Silence effect. Using Tav/Karlach, land a surprise attack
on a Justicar and quickly dispatch The Librarian so Gale/Shadowheart and cast spells. With that
taken care of, you can make quick work of the remaining enemies. On the northern end of the
room is a bookcase you need to disarm to obtain the Teachings of Loss: The Nightsinger book.
Here is a screenshot to show the specific bookcase:
You can disarm the other bookcases if you want, but when you're ready use Knock on the
portcullis blocking your path. Here you'll find a pedestal to place the book you just got, opening
a treasure room. Inside is the Spear of Night, which is needed for later, along with some other
loot. Fast travel back to the "Gauntlet of Shar" waypoint. The next section can be a bit confusing
as going the wrong way could back you into a tough fight. Essentially there is one last gem being

guarded by the demon Raphael wants you to kill, Yurgir. Problem is he's very strong, can have
invisibility, and isn't alone. You could try to talk your way through similar to the Thorm family, but
I'd rather not chance it as there's one more path to resolution and his skill checks are high. Our
plan is to find and kill someone hiding in this area as a favor to Yurgir. Here is a video showing
the pathing on how to find their location:
If you'd rather not watch the video, from where the elevator takes you, follow the eastern path
and jump across the gap. Go down the stairs and continue forward until you see some rocks to
the left that you can climb down. You'll then see a Cragged Rock you can climb down. Jump
down to a clear floor and climb down another Cragged Rock to then final an altar. Read the
nearby book, light the candles, and interact with the altar. This will trigger a rat to soon appear,
immediately attack it. This will trigger a horde of rats to spawn one after another, which can be
dangerous.
This is where our planned use of Wall of Fire that I mentioned at the start of the day comes in
handy. If you place this across the arena you can take care of a lot of rats since they only have 5
hp each. Be careful of the Sporific Rats that are a pink/purple color as when they die they will
release a small area effect putting people to sleep. Keep Gale away from them as best you can as
if he gets put to sleep, the spell will be negated. You can also rely on Shadowheart's Spirit

Guardians spell to deal with the rats and really cover your bases. Here is a screenshot showing
the best place to put down the Wall of Fire.
Some rats will spawn in front of it in the section your characters will be, so I recommend parking
Gale in the far back near the altar and fanning out the rest of your party to act as shields. Once
they're all dead, Lyrthindor will appear before you. Immediately attack and kill him as this will set
Yurgir free. Backtrack up the path and after the second Cragged Rock there should be a nearby
room with enemies in it. Walk in and talk to the giant red demon to resolve things. On the ground
will be your final Umbral Gem with some loot in here and the adjacent room. Now we can teleport
back to the "Gauntlet of Shar" waypoint. Follow the eastern path again, but look for a staircase
leading north. Here will be a pedestal you can place an Umbral Gem in to activate a moving
platform. There will now be pedestal to place your remaining thee Umbral Gems, revealing a path
forward. You'll discover the "Verge of the Shadows" waypoint.
Now is a good opportunity to visit the vendors at the Last Light Inn and Moonrise Towers as this
is the point of no return for the Act. After this you'll lose access to the vendors of Moonrise
Tower. Sell anything you want and buy any Scrolls/Potions/Arrows etc. that you want. Ideally for
the next day you'll have a Scroll of Haste.
When you're ready travel back to the "Verge of the Shadows" waypoint and walk up to the pool.
To progress forward you will need the Spear of Night that we picked up earlier. Interact with the
pool once for a short conversation then interact with it again to get teleported away. Here is a
straightforward path with some loot littered around. Jump from area to area. Once you get to the
bottom you'll meet the Nightsong.
We really need her to make it out of this alive as she helps outa lot with the upcoming boss
fights. You want to make these choices:
● Please, Shadowheart. Don't do this.
● This is wrong... but I can't afford to lose you. Do what you must.
● [Persuasion] Don't do it, Shadowheart. Don't kill her - you'll regret it.
● To get out of this place? Absolutely.
● All right, let's get out of here.
Take the portal out of here and use your Long Rest. Since we sent Arabella to our camp, we
need to track her down and tell her the fate of her parents. She can be found standing right next
to Withers. Talk to her and break the bad news. Make sure you have your Aura of Protection
active on Tav! Honestly it wouldn't hurt forcing a cloud save here as someone could die if this
doesn't go well. When you're ready go ahead and sleep. Tonight you'll be visited by Sceleritas
Fel, but unfortunately he offers no gifts this time. He'll try to force you to murder whoever you've

been romancing, in my case Karlach, or someone else in your party if you haven't been
romancing people. Don't worry, we can avoid this by passing some Saving Throws. Here are the
choices you can take to save things:
● Cease this insubordination. You serve me.
● I can control myself.
● We are indomitable together. You underestimate us.
● I will save her, whatever it takes.
● Reach forward to shake her shoulder and wake her.
● [Saving Throw] Resist. Wake her up.
● Now isn't the time. I need to protect you.
● Madness will take over my body against my will, and I will kill you.
● [Saving Throw] Resist and try to express understanding.
● [Saving Throw] Try to express gratitude.
● Confess everything: you have been fiercely fighting against your Dark Urge.
● I promise I will be the person you see in me.
With that, the day is over!
Day 11
Here are the plans for today. We'll be sieging the Moonrise Towers and defeating Ketheric Thorm.
● Morning Buffs
○ Mimic
○ Radija and Necromites (x3)
○ Ketheric Thorm, guards (x2), and Necromites (x8)
● Short Rest
○ Chop and Intellect Devourers (x5)
○ Intellect Devourers (x7)
○ Mind Flayers (x4)
○ Cultists (x4)
● Short Rest
○ Death Shepherd, Winged Horrors (x4), and Zombies (x10)
○ Intellect Devourers (x7)
● Illithid Refresh (full heal and all spell slots replenished)
○ Ketheric Thorm, Mind Flayer, Intellect Devourers (x4), and Necromites (x4)
○ Final boss of Act 2
If you have them, bring along a Scroll of Haste, something to help people traverse gaps, either
with Feather Fall, Misty Step or Flying, and at least three Potions of Invisibility. We'll be doing
some traversing to skip a fight and Shadowheart/Gale may need some assistance. The Scroll of
Haste and Invisibility Potions are to help with final boss fight of Act 2. Also I recommend saving
your "Luck of the Far Realm" attacks for the very final fight of today. I will expressly call out when
that fight is.
Before leaving camp we need to adjust Karlach's class a bit. Once she hits level 9 we want her to
be a6/3 hybrid between Monk and Rogue. This allows a second bonus action, but the reason
why we didn't start putting levels into Rogue sooner was because it wasn't worth the tradeoff
until we could have the full 6/3 split. It will be close by about 300xp, but you will hopefully hit

level 9 just before the boss fight. We're doing this now because at that point you won't be able
return to camp until after the fight. With that all said, speak to Withers and adjust Karlach's class
accordingly.

<<TABLE>>
Monk Level 1
  Abilities: • Strength - 8 • Dexterity - 16 (+2 bonus added) • Constitution - 15 • Intelligence - 10 • Wisdom - 16 (+1 bonus added) • Charisma - 8
  Skill Proficiency: • Acrobatics • Insight
  Monk Level 4
  Feat: • Tavern Brawler • Constitution to 16
  Rogue level 1
  Add Class: • Rogue level 1 Skill Proficiency: • Sleight of Hand Skill Expertise: • Acrobatics • Sleight of Hand

Monk Level 2
  • Nothing to choose.
  Monk Level 5
  • Nothing to choose.
  Rogue Level 2
  • Nothing to choose.

Monk Level 3
  Subclass: • Way of the Open Hand
  Monk Level 6
  • Nothing to Choose.
<</TABLE>>

• Nothing to
choose.
• Sleight of
Hand
Leave camp and do your morning buff routine of Mage Armor on Gale, Aid (tier 4), Elixir on Hill
Giant Strength on both Karlach/Tav, Soul Coin on Karlach, and lastly Shield of Thralls on the
characters of your choice. Teleport to the "Moonrise Towers" waypoint and start looting all the
bodies leading to the tower. As you get to the staging area, a conversation withJaheira will start.
We'll be skipping a giant fight on the first floor, but if we leave Jaheira she will very likely die
during it. By making these choices though, we can convince her to join us:
● You're the High Harper. You tell me.
● Actually, I'd rather you join my party, Jaheira.
● Ketheric is a formidable foe. I have need of a formidable ally
Finish looting the bodies as two of them here have a Mind Flayer Parasite Specimen (Adept
Merim andZealot Malik). Follow the side path to the east and you'll find some vines you can
climb up. From here jump down to some scaffolding and then to another scaffolding with a
ladder. Tav/Karlach/Jaheira can make this just fine, but use either Misty Step or Fly on
Shadowheart and Gale to get them across if they have issue. If you pulled the lever when we
were in Balthazar's room on a previous day, the door should still be open. If not, you can use
Gale's Knock spell on it to save you having to picklock a high DC door. Make your way inside and
go through the locked door leading into an unknown room. Go to the right and into the door
ahead of you, leading you toKetheric's bedroom. In here is a locked chest with the Cloak of
Elemental Absorption that you can give to Shadowheart. Go through the door into the next room
and be wary of the chest, that's actually amimic. Attack the chest and you should be able to kill
it before it does anything.
Back into that center area, go through the southern door to run into Radija. She has a few
Necromiteswith her, but none of this poses any risk. When you're ready to fight Ketheric, go
through theOrnate Door near the altar. After the cutscene the fight will begin. Nothing really
major here, butKetheric can spawn a husk that turns into another Necromite if left alone. Since
Ketheric is up top, I recommend focusing on Susdera first as she can send Fireballs into your
party. If you brought Jaheira, you can use her Ice Storm to deal a lot of damage to a whole row of
Necromites while your party focuses on the other side. Once enough damage has been done to
Ketheric, he'll retreat. Use a Short Rest and once you're ready, into the flesh tunnel you go!
Break through the flesh barrier and follow the path to the right into the first room. Here will be
Chopand some Intellect Devourers. Attack Chop and make quick work through this group of
enemies. If you saved "Us" in the Prologue and it survived until the crash, you can reunite with
your little buddy here! You'll find it locked in a cage and if you free it you'll gain it as a
summonable creature with a Short Rest cooldown. Go ahead and bring it along, the more the
merrier. Make your way back to the initial hallway and continue until you see a pathway to the
left. In this room will be a group of Intellect Devourers with Mind Flayers trapped in pods. Since
we don't want to find them at the same time, attack the Intellect Devourers first.
Once those are dead split up everyone from your party and form a square formation covering the
pods. Have whoever is close to the console set them free. Not only will this free four Mind

Flayers, but three friendly NPCs as well. One of which beingZevlor. With our positioning and the
NPC help, this fight shouldn't pose too much a threat if you focus your attacks. In the following
room in the back left is a pod you can interact with to find out Mizora has been captured herself.
Even though we aren't using Wyll, we want to save her to continue some things in Act 3. You can
choose the [Intimidation] option and choosing the device on the right will free her. If you fail the
check to investigate, that doesn't matter as you can still choose the right option without knowing
what it does.
● Mizora? You are the devil you sent Wyll to resuce?
● [Intimidation] Free Wyll, or I let the cult infect you. I bet you'd make a loyal thrall.
● Examine the device on the right.
● Connect your mind to the device on the right and activate it.
● To the Hells with your conditions. Sever Wyll's pact now, or I'll sever your head.
Right next to where Mizora was held there is a brine pool you can interact with. If you pass the
interaction check you'll automatically get a Mind Flayer Parasite Specimen. If you fail on one
character, try your others. On the other side of the room are three Brine Barrels that you should
pick up.
Go down the other hallway and once you get go through the door, time will be a bit important. In
the next room you'll see two Nautiloid Tanks on either side of a passageway. The room that leads
to has four cultists in it. After a bit they'll walk back into the main room, which can hurt a lot if
they set off those tanks. To combat this, enter both Hide Party modeand Turn-Based mode. Get
one character close to their detection range. With that character fire off a ranged attack,
hopefully landing a surprise attack. Worst case only one character gets blown up instead of your
whole party. Ideally though you land the surprise attack and pick up the two Nautiloid Tanks
before they can do anything. Once the fighting it done, feel free to loot all the side rooms and
use your second Short Rest. Later on there is one of those Illithid consoles that will replenish
everything, including spell slots, so for the next section you can let loose all your remaining
spells.
Follow the pathway leading south that will take you back to the main hallway. Continue going
south into the last major enemy room here. There are a lot of enemies in this room along with
some Nautiloid Tanks, so I recommend staying near the entrance and letting the enemies run to
you. By using Spirit Guardians or some Fireballs when they group up, you should be able to
manage this swarm without too much fuss. Grab the Nautiloid Tanks if they survived and loot the
area. Go back to the hallway and before you go into the east room, kill all the wandering Intellect
Devourers. Once those are dead there are two remaining ones in the eastern room. Hopefully
you've hit level 9, which will be useful for the upcoming boss fight. If you're about 500xp off, you
can kill the friendly NPCs that we saved from the pods earlier. None of them are important and
you being level 9 is well worth it. Here are the recommended choices for Level 9:

<<TABLE>>
Tav
  Spellbook: • Blinding Smite

Karlach
  Rogue Level 3 Skill Proficiency: • Sleight of Hand

Gale
  Spellbook: • Cone of Cold

Shadowheart
  Spells: • Flame
<</TABLE>>

Use the blue Restoration terminal before going onto the moving platform. Take the moving
platform down and go through the door for a cutscene to start. Since we have Gale with us,
they'll be an option to have him explode here but that WON'T give us credit for beating the game,
so we want to make sure he chooses not to:
● Gale you cannot do this. You can't condemn us to death.
● Stand down! This isn't your decision to make.
With that, enter Hide Party mode and get ready to position everyone for the fight. Turn on Turn-
Based Mode. Have Gale use Metamagic: Twinned Spell to cast Haste on both Tav and Karlach.
Then use anInvisibility Potion on Tav, Karlach, and Shadowheart. We want to split our group
completely up and give them each specific tasks (video included):
● Tav - Go along the left ridges to handle the group of Necromites.
● Karlach - Go up the right side to handle theMind Flayer.
● Shadowheart - Go along the right side to freeDame Aylin and use a Scroll of Haste on her
if you brought one
● Gale/Us - Stay back and adjust accordingly. Attack the Mindflayer if Karlach can't kill it in
one turn or otherwise attack the Intellect Devourers (Fireball works great).

Take a few turns to get everyone squarely into position to kick things off. This isn't the time to
use your "Luck of the Far Realm" attacks, there's actually one last fight after Ketheric. Once
you're ready, have Karlach use Flurry of Blows: Topple on the Mind Flayer and you should
successfully trigger a surprise attack. With that have everyone do their assigned roles and by the
time Ketheric can do anything, there shouldn't be many remaining enemies. Ketheric does start
the fight injured and will trigger the next phase when he "dies". Before you finish him off, try to
get your characters into optimal position for the next phase against the final boss of Act 2. You'll
want Tav/Karlach on the central platform on opposite directions (north/south). You do not want
them facing the open pool to the east as they could get knocked back to their death. You'll then
want position Gale/Shadowheart/Us on the outer platforms to do ranged attacks. With Ketheric
down, the Apostle of Myrkul will appear in the middle of the central platform. Please read ahead
so you know what to do for this strategy.Personally I feel like this is the riskiest fight in the
game given it can snowball bad fast if you aren't careful.
There are three notable things for this fight:
● You'll be unable to be healed while on the central platform.
● Myrkul does cleaving attacks, so stay apart.
● Every turn Myrkul will spawn husks that will turn into necromites. These necromites will
then rush to Myrkul, who will then consume them to be healed.

●
The Necromites have to run up to the central platform to be eaten, but once they spawn they will
immediately run to Myrkul. I recommend the ranged characters focusing on keeping the Husks/
Necromites in check as Tav/Karlach/Aylin focus on Myrkul.
If you got to Myrkul with all your "Luck of the Far Realms" attacks, this would be the ideal time to
use them as every bit helps in ending this fight as quickly as possible. Between those and having
Haste on both Karlach/Tav, you should be well equipped on dealing with Myrkul. Let lose all your
hardest hitting spells! When in doubt, play on the safe side though and attack the Necromites as
needed. Once the fight is over, interact withKetheric's body to trigger a cutscene with theDream
Visitor. You'll then be able to loot his body, which notably has the Reaper's Embrace armor. Give
that to Tav and pass along the Adamantine Splint Armor to Shadowheart.
Leave through the portal to appear in the throne room back at Moonrise Towers. You'll get a
cutscene with Karlach and after that approach Aylin/Isobel for another one showing their reunion.
Agree to talk to them at your camp. Before leaving, do a looting pass of the main lobby where all
three vendors were. You can pick up all the wares they left behind but there should also be
bodies/pouches left from the battle we skipped. Once you're all done, go ahead and Long Rest.
Before sleeping, Isobel andAylin will now be present in your camp. Have a quick chat with them
and then go to sleep.
Mini Day 1
There will actually only be one mini day segment as there's a slight segment between the
Shadow-cursed Lands and the proper area where Act 3 takes place. Don't do any of your buffs
and fast travel to the "Road to Baldur's Gate" waypoint that you should have grabbed when we
fought those Githyanki. If not, you should have a quest marker to the west of the map. Go down
the path and a cutscene will play. You'll gain control of your character during the night at a new
camp. Make your way down to your bedroll and sleep. This will trigger a night time ambush. You
have three turnsto get to the portal before failing and if you waste time killing the enemies, more
reinforcements will appear. With that in mind, I recommend taking Karlach and just rushing to the
portal by using her Step of the Wind: Dash ability. This doubles her movement speed and makes
it so she can jump multiple times. Between that and your regular Dash, you should be able to get
to the portal in just one turn on her.
Once you arrive in the next area, take a moment to buff your part. Summon "Us" if you have it,
castMage Armor on Gale, use an Elixir of Hill Giant Strength on only Karlach, and lastly cast Aid
(tier 4) with Shadowheart. While you do have tier 5 spell slots now, there is only 1 or 2 fights
(depending on your speed) so why not have some fun with an offensive tier 5 spell. With that,
charge forward. Depending on your speed you may catch someGithyanki fighting Intellect
Devourers (the latter being allies). Continue forward to find the true"Dream Visitor" fighting off
a group of Githyanki. Agree to help it out and let loose all your hardest-hitting spells/attacks. You
don't need to worry about conserving spell slots as they'll all be back at the start of the next day.
After the fight, you'll learn more about our friend and you'll eventually be asked if you want to

evolve. These are the choices you want to then make:
● Yes.
● Do as it says.
● Open your mind to the tadpole.
Accept this to unlock the next tier of Illithid powersfor Tav and we'll have the option of doing so
with the others once we're back at camp. Loot the area and make sure to at least grab the loot
off of Prelate Lir'i'c - the Boots of Uninhibited Kushigo. Give those to Karlach and go through the
portal to go back to camp. With this Illithid power upgrade it will unlock all of the first tier
upgrades, refunding any points spent on them. This should leave you at 3 upgrade points to
spend. Open the upgrade menu on Tav and get the new "Illithid Expertise" perk, which will add a
+4 to our upcoming [Persuasion]checks. Realistically the only character we need at this Illithid
tier is Tav, the others is optional. Reason I say that is because going to this tier gives any
character an appearance change - deep blue eyes and veins on their face. If you're fine with that
on all your companions, here are all the dialogue options to convince everyone.
Karlach
● The Emperor has offered us a special tadpole. We'll become partial mind flayers, but we'll
get great powers in turn.
● [Persuasion] I really think we should do this, Karlach.
● [Persuasion] If we finish this, and win, we'll be free. Really free.
● Open your mind to it.
Gale
● We've been given a rare gift. An Astral-Touched Tadpole, with the power to grant you a
new, partial Illithid form...
● [Persuasion] You will wield this power well, and with wisdom. There aren't many I'd trust
with this.
● Open your mind to it.
Shadowheart
● I think that special tadpole the Emperor offered will increase our chances of success.
● [Persuasion] Trust me. We need these powers... and you're going to love what you can do
with them.
● Open your mind to it.
After convincing everyone, you should be at 7 Illithid points to spend. This is the breakdown I
would recommend:
That wraps up everything for this mini-day. Sleep and upon leaving camp the next day you will
officially be in Act 3!
9. Honor Mode / Dark Urge Only - Act 3

<<TABLE>>
Tav
  Freecast Displace Blackhole

Gale
  Freecast

Shadowheart
  Freecast

Karlach
  Shield of Thralls Freecast
<</TABLE>>

Links to different sections of this guide covering all of Act 3:
● Day 12 - Attacking a circus, a powerful wizard, and blowing up a factory
● Day 13 - Killing civilians, Bhaal worshipers, and invading the House of Hope
● Day 14 - Gortash and setting things up for Orin
● Day 15 - Fighting our first dragon, Ansur
● Day 16 - Interrupting Orin's ritual
● Day 17 - Elder Brain
Day 12
Welcome to Act 3! Here are the plans for today and brace yourself, we'll be doing a lot. We'll be
attacking a circus, a powerful wizard, blowing up a factory, and more.
● Morning Buffs
○ Arfur Gregorio and bodyguards (x4)
○ Chult Alioramus' pack (x5)
○ Dribbles the Clown, Doppelganger (x2), Blink Dog, Displacer Beast, and Chult
Alioramus
● Short Rest
○ Prison guards (x4)
○ Lorroakan, Elemental Myrmidons (x4), and guards (x2)
○ Cultists (x7)
● Short Rest
○ Factory guards (x2)
○ Factory guards (x3) and Gondians (x3)
We need to save a tier two spell slot on Tav to use Darkness at a specific point and a tier five
spell slot on Gale for a Counterspell against a boss. Along with that, keep your eye out for both
an Elixir of Vigilance (only need 1) and any Elixir of Cloud Giant Strengths. You may already have
an Elixir of Vigilance stored away or can make one, hang on to that. As for the Cloud Giant elixirs,
they increase your Strength up to 27.
Leave camp and do your morning buff routine ofMage Armor on Gale, Aid (tier 5), Elixir on Hill
Giant Strength on both Karlach/Tav, Soul Coin on Karlach, and lastly Shield of Thralls on all your
characters. If you were able to unlock "Freecast" on Shadowheart you can just use that to cast
Aid at tier 5 and maintain the actual spell slot to use at your discretion. Walk down the path and
towards the crowd gathering in front of a house. Instead of bothering to resolve the dispute, just
immediately pick a fight by using the
option in the dialogue menu. Pretty standard bodyguard type enemies, nothing to worry about.
Loot the bodies and follow the path southeast. You should start going up a hill leading up to a
secluded barn. If you have a means of speaking to animals, go in here to find the Strange Ox one
last time. Agree to help it out and it will turn into an apple for you to pick up off the ground. All

you have to do is transport it to the other area of the city.
Down the hill and to the north is a large wooden structure. Down at the very bottom outside,
close to where you are, you'll find some of the Tiefling children from before. Speak to Mattis to
see what new wares he has. Here you may come across the very impressive Elixir of Cloud Giant
Strength which increases your strength to a massive 27 until your next Long Rest. We'll want a
handful of these for Karlach. Buy any potions or other consumables you want.
Go back to the main road and start going north. To the left you should see a crowd gathering in
front of gate for a circus. Talk to Klaus and use the[Intimidation] option to get in. Along the
southern wall there will be a row of stalls, one of which has a Djinni named Akabi with a gambling
wheel. Surprise, he's actually cheating. Split of Karlach from the group, get behind him and enter
Hide Party mode. You'll want to pickpocket him and steal his ring. With our build you should only
need to pass a DC of 3 to steal it. Equip it and interact with Akabi:
● YOU ARE VERY LOUD.
● I'd like to spin the wheel.
● I have no idea what you're talking about.
This will cause you to win and as a punishment Akabi will send your controlled character to a
remote jungle filled with dinosaur-like creatures. With Karlach she should be able to tear through
them without effort at all. Make your way through the jungle until you find the portal out. DO NOT
GO THROUGH THE PORTAL BEFORE OPENING THE CHEST. In the chest is a Legendary item -
Nyruha. This is a stronger version of the throwing spear we've been using until now and it has an
area effect on wherever it is thrown. Suffice to say we want Karlach to hold onto this, but don't
equip it. Also take off the ring you stole from Akabi and put back on what you had before.
Continue west and up a small set of stairs. Here you'll see a Mephit named Boney by a white and
purple tent. Here is where you can pay 5,000g for a statue of whoever you use to talk to him.
This is a one time deal, but it gives whoever the statue is of apermanent Bless buff for the rest
of the game. Personally I chose Tav, but it's entirely up to you. If you have things to sell, you can
actually get your money back from Boney here as that 5,000g is in his inventory (no, you can't
steal it back or kill him for it). I'm unsure of it will be there on the following days, so I recommend
just selling anything you don't want to hang on while you're here.
From here go to the northeastern section to find a crowd gathering around a clown on stage.
Once you get close a cutscene will occur and you'll be prompted to send someone on stage. I
recommend sending Tav up and then choosing the "Attack"option when given the opportunity.
Otherwise you'll be ambushed and take extra damage. The biggest annoyance here will be the
Displacer Beast in the cage as it will summon clones of itself outside of the cage. Take Karlach
to picklock the gate, or punch through it, and let the attacks fly. After that enemy is dead, it's up
to you on who to focus on next. The nearby NPCs may also get into the fray, either attacking or
soaking attacks.
Loot the bodies if you'd like and use your first Short Rest here and go back to the main path to
continue north. To the right you'll see the Rivington General Store (building right before the
water well). Nothing of note to buy here, but pointing out the vendor to sell things to. Follow the
main path until you reach a guarded checkpoint where you'll be confronted:
● I'm not a refugee.

● I can take care of myself. (200)
● My name is ____
● Can I go now?
● [Baldurian] I cam from Baldur's Gate - my old home is there... somewhere...
● Do as she says. Stand still.
● Consent to arrest.
Out of nowhere a gnome will appear and throw a bomb, stunning the guard patrol. To follow the
gnome, take the eastern path right before the checkpoint and traverse down some rocks. You'll
see some vines to climb down, leading you to a cave entrance. Go inside to find their hideout.
FindWulbren in one of the rooms and agree to help him blow up a factory. In one of the rooms
will be Philomeen who you may remember from Act 1. Speak to her and use the
option to trade with her and buy a Runepowder Vial, which we'll use later on. While here you can
check out what bothBumpnagel and Barcus have for sale, buy all of there explosives as well.
There is one last thing to do here and it is very important. There are twoRunepowder Barrels that
we can steal! In one of the side rooms there is a gnome patrolling around. When the gnome is
away from the barrels, enterTurn-Based mode. Have Tav use Darkness (or if you have a Scroll of
Darkness) and target it over the barrels. It is crucial that the gnome isn't hit by the cast as that
will make everyone hostile. Once Darkness is active, just walk in and steal both barrels. If you got
the one in Act 1 then you should be sitting on three of these nukes, which will come in very handy
soon. Here is a video showing the order of operations:

At the end of the hideout is a lever next to a ladder, hit that and go up the ladder to appear in a
building. Go outside and continue through the checkpoint. There are a lot of buildings stacked on
top of one another here, making it a bit confusing. To right you'll discover the "South Span of
Wyrm's Crossing" waypoint, you'll want to head inside the building it is attached to, Sharess'
Caress. Go up the stairs in the back and follow the red carpet to go up another set of stairs. Go
out the door to find a pathway leading over the main road. Walk along this until you see a door
you can freely enter, which should have Kith'rak Voss and Raphael inside. Speak to Raphael to
learn some things but DO NOT AGREE to his terms and walk away. Walk back to the second floor
of Sharess' Caress to speak withKith'rak Voss to learn some things from him as well. We want
to keep helping him on his side, so agree to help. Go back outside and follow the path until you
essentially reach the next checkpoint. To the left is a staircase and right next to the top of it is a
door leading to the Danthelon's Dancing Axe store. Speak with the vendor and buy the Cloak of
Displacement, which you should give to Gale to help protect him more. Follow the next set of
stairs up to find a potion shop, buy whatever you would like.
Go back outside and don't bother with the second guard checkpoint as they'll try to get 20,000g
out of you. Immediately to the right is a ladder you can climb down. Here will be a deck and we'll
want to traverse the ravine and make it to the grassy ledges north of you. If you convinced your
whole party to get the Illithid upgrade, everyone can just use theFly ability to make it over.
Otherwise you'll need some other transportation mechanism (Scrolls or Potions of Flight/Feather
Fall). Follow the path east to find a hole in the wall. This will bring you into the prison. Go inside

and jump across the gap. Karlach can punch her way through the crumbling wall. Don't bother
picklocking the door as you can just break it down as well. Try to sneak up on the guards to land
a surprise attack. There is one that patrolsdown the hallway with three in a guard's room. Loot
them for a key to free Counsellor Florrick from being imprisoned in a nearby cell. Speak to her,
choose the [Persuasion] option, and get her to follow you. Go out the prison door and find a
guard asleep on duty, go ahead and get a super free kill. Go out the next door to be met with a
short cutscene as you enter Wyrm's Rock fortress.
Go out into the hallway and step outside the northern exit. This will be enough for Florrick to
reach safety. Continue north to trigger a short conversation with Mizora. Up ahead you'll soon
you'll see an invisible wall that transports you to the other major portion of the city. Loading into
here will complete the transportation quest we got from theStrange Ox. Follow the main path
west and the first building along the road should be the Stormshore Tabernacle along the right
side of the road. Go in and speak to the NPC here to check his wares. BuyThe Reviving Hands
gloves to give to Shadowheart, along with any consumables you want.
Go back outside and continue following the path west as it goes downhill and eventually you'll
get to a courtyard with a magical performance happening. Just west of the fountain is a waypoint
mark called the "Lower City Central Wall", grab that for convenience sake. There are two
buildings adjacent to this fountain that are important. First up is"Bonecloak's Apothecary",
which is north of the fountain. If you gave the mushroom to the dwarf trader back in Act 1, they
were able to keep their business afloat. Here is where you can stock up on any potions or
alchemy ingredients, so make trips here each day! Next up is the "Sorcerous Sundries" store
just south of the fountain where you'll find Rolan being a receptionist. Chat with him and let him
know you have information regarding theNightsong. Before leaving, check that Rolan's health is
topped off as he'll be joining us in a fight soon.
I highly recommend checking what his wares are as there are several strong items that we want
to get. If you have anything left to sell that you don't want as well, now would be a good time to
offload it. You definitely want to buy the Birthright hat and Ring of Regeneration. In terms of
scrolls buy any Scrolls of Haste for sure, along with a Scroll of Globe of Invulnerability. The latter
will come in handy for a specific fight if needed. Give the hat to Gale and replace Shadowheart's
Ring of Salving with the new one we bought. There's also another clerk in the back of this floor,
behind the stairs, that doubles as a vendor. Remember her whenever you are scroll shopping.
Make your way up the stairs a projection of Lorroakan will appear before you. Some portals will
spawn and you want to make sure to take the far left one (blue). Up top we'll meet the man
himself and we want to trick him into believing the Nightsong is dead:
● Not quite the enthusiastic welcome I was hoping for.
● What do you want with her?
● [Deception] I regret to inform you the Nightsong is no more - killed in the Sharran temple
where she was held.
● She was a Selunite held by Sharrans. Her death was inevitable.
I would recommend doing the next traversal bit only if you have full Inspiration (you can check by
pulling up the

menu wheel and looking at the upper right corner, there is a max of 4 points). The reason for
this is because we'll be trying to to get a Legendary weapon for Gale. Below the floor we're on,
you'll see some floating furniture that we can jump down. This is another situation where
everyone having access to Fly is helpful. Just target the floor below and everyone else should
follow suit. Once on that floor there will be a barrier blocking your ability to delve deeper. Before
finding our way around this, loot all the chests on this floor as one of them has an Elixer of Cloud
Giant Strength. Bring the party to the northwest of the room to find a plaque labeled"Below".
Interact with the nearby button to bring everyone down below. Here is a video showing the
location/pathing from the top:
Here is where we hope luck is on our side. Take control of Gale as this requires an Arcana check.
Two levers will be revealed and we want to interact with the one near the table with a staff on it.
We need to pass a DC check of 20, which is why we want as many re-dos as possible via
Inspiration. The other table has a armor piece that you can try to get after for some extra gold.
Obviously you want to give this staff to Gale, so replace his Knife of the Undermountain King
with it. There are two great perks from this new weapon. First one is we can get a free cast of any
spell we know once per Long Rest. On top of that you can apply the Kereshka's Favorbuff that

bolsters an elemental damage type once every Short Rest. For example if you use the Lightning
version, Gale will do increased Lightning damage while also getting a free use of Chain Lighting.
Take the button back up and go to the southeast and to find the one labeled vault. Have
everyone push that button and loot the room. Loot everything you want and make your way into
the next room to take the portal out. You'll appear in a locked room, but you can just teleport to
the "Lower City Central Wall" waypoint. From there, go to camp and speak with Aylin:
● A wizard called Lorroakan is looking for you.
● All I know is that he's put out a contract for your capture.
● Let's take him down - together.
Leave your camp and head back up to where Lorroakan was for a cutscene. Side with
Aylinduring this cutscene and Rolan will join your efforts as well. Protecting Rolan and Aylin are
your priorities. As soon as you can, have Shadowheart cast Sanctuary on Rolan to protect him
until some enemies are dead. This is the fight that we wanted to save a tier five spell slot on
Gale. Lorroakan has a very nasty reaction spell called Elemental Retortthat will trigger when he
first takes damage. The damage roll on this is 12 - 96 across four elemental types. Using
specifically a tier 5 Counterspellthough completely negates it, thus saving you from potentially
instantly downing yourself.
Once Lorroakan is dead, focus down theMyrmidons and the lingering guards. Talk with Rolan for
him to take charge of the tower and ask for his assistance in the upcoming battle to decide
everyone's fate. Leave the building and start following the main path to the southwest. You'll
soon see a building erupt in an explosion with Araj Oblodra stumbling out. She'll beckon you
inside, but wait for all the fire to go away. Inside she'll give you a potion and ask you to drink it.
Do so away from your party as it will cause you to explode. Once that's done, see if there's
anything you want to buy and then head back outside.
Continue following the path west and it'll eventually bend northwest. You'll reach a courtyard
with a statue, which is a landmark we can use as a reference point. Just north of this is the
"Baldur's Gate" waypoint, so grab that for future use. If you still have the Githyanki Egg from Act
1, you can sell it here for an extra 1,000g. There is a building directly south of this statue
(entrance is a bit down the road to the southwest). Inside is a scholar namedHavkelaag that you
can sell the egg to. Follow the road to the southwest until you see a ramp going south into some
docks. Down here you'll see a crowd of people gathering about. A group of Absolute cultists
have Volo hostage and are about to blow him up. We should save him and attack them.
As soon as it's Gale's turn I recommend using Ray of Frost on the fire path leading the Volo tied
to the explosive barrels to prevent him from going boom. Once the fight is over the only notable
loot is a Mind Flayer Parasite Specimen, which you can use to unlock the "Psionic Dominance"
perk on Tav. In total there are two Firewine Barrels and eightSmokepowder Barrels, make sure to
grab all of them and send to camp. We'll be using ALL of our explosives soon. Speak to Volo and
he'll run off. Now would be a good time to use your secondShort Rest.
Go to the locked gate near where the crowd was gathered by. When the coast is clear from the
patrolling guard, picklock that fence and the door directly ahead. Once inside, make sure to
close the door so the robotic guard doesn't see you. There are two guards off to the side, so

enter Hide Party mode and ambush them. Make your way into the next room and choose the
[Deception] option during the cutscene. Now you can stage your ambush on the enemies here
and as a note this is the only group here that we'll actually be fighting here. Before attacking,
grab the Oil Barrel in the middle walkway. Only thing of note is one of the cultists,Tamia Holzt,
will drop a Motivator upon death. This will start a countdown that you can stop by interacting
with it. At this point everyone should be level 10, so here are my recommendations:
Loot the bodies and make go into the backroom. Back here you'll see a remaining Gondian
namedZanner Toobin. Split Karlach off from the group and pickpocket him to get the Property of
Zanner Toobinbook. Make sure to actually read this with Karlach as it helps us disarm the factory
without having to use the bomb we were given, allowing us to save it for later. Give Karlach three
Potions of Invisibility (or three means of turning invisible) and theRunepowder Bomb that we got
from Wulbren. Technically we'll only need two rounds of invisibility, but having a third as a
backup would be smart. We're also bringing the bomb as a backup. Make sure you bring just the
bomb you got from Wulbren and not one of the barrels.
I recommend reading the next two paragraphs along with the video so you know how to pull this
off. Turn Karlach invisible and go down the stairs into the doorway for the next section.
Immediately head east, going down some stairs and then up another set. Go left and you'll see a
raised section where a procedure is being done. Interact with thebookhself behind Gondian
Gringo Biggs and readThe Many Faces of Gond book. READ IT ONLY, DON'T PICK IT UP.
Picking up the book will remove your invisibility. Continue north and go down the stairs to find
Black Gauntlet Hahns Rives. A Hellfire Watcher may be walking by, so let it pass. Enterboth
Hide Party mode and Turn-Based mode. Make sure you're not in a detection zone and then
pickpocket the key from him. You'll need to use the

<<TABLE>>
Tav
  Spellbook: • Elemental Weapon

Karlach
  • Rogue level 4
  Feat: • Alert

Gale
  Cantrip: • Acid Splash
  Spells: • Ice Storm
  Metamagic: • Careful Spell

Shadowheart
  Cantrips: • Blade Ward
  Spellbook: • Insect Plague
<</TABLE>>

menu over him to select the option, otherwise you'll end up just attacking him. Make a break for
the large door behind you to get to the next section. Video representation of this strategy that
also covers the next section:
You can leave both Hide Party mode and Turn Base mode in this small room before progressing
forward. Make Karlach invisible once more and make a break for the back of the room. With the
steps we did before, we know the passcode to destroy the facility, allowing us to save the bomb
for another use. That said, it does require passing a small DC roll, which is why we still brought
the bomb as a backup. If you fail and only have one Inspiration point, just use the bomb option.
Interact with the"Neural Switchboard" in the back and make the following choices:
● Recall the code Toobin shared with you.
● [Intelligence] Input code "Nebelun", and increase the Neurocitor's output to maximum.
○ This is only a DC roll of 7.
After the cutscene you'll be outside where Wulbrenand Barcus confront one another. If possible,
we want Barcus to take over the Ironhand gnomes, giving us an ally for the end game segment. If
you fail this and are out of Inspiration, not a big deal. Unfortunately since we did this with Karlach
we don't have the Charisma benefits of Tav, so if you have Inspiration to use upon a failure, do
so.
● Toobin is right. It's over.

● [Rogue][Persuasion] There's no honor among thieves, Barcus - and same goes for the
Ironhands. Take Wulbren's place, lead them yourself!
Now is a great place to use your Long Rest. You want to make sure to Long Rest in this section of
the city to set yourself up for the right night event trigger. When you first get to camp a cutscene
will play of Vlaakith confronting the group. Unlike when we met her in Act 1, there are no death
triggers here, so make whatever choices you want. Next up we should have a new guest visiting
our camp, Yurgir. As we saved him back in Act 2, he's here to guide our way to Raphael's
domain. Speak to him and make whatever choices you want. You're free to go to sleep to trigger
the night event. You should be visited by the Emperor.
Day 13
Here are the plans for today. We'll be killing some civilians, Bhaal worshipers, and invading the
House of Hope.
● Morning Buffs
○ Figaro "Facemaker" Pennygood (and possibly 8+ guards)
○ Cora Highberry (and possibly 10+ guards)
○ Dolor
● Short Rest
○ Sarevok Anchev and Blood Echoes (x4)
● Short Rest
○ Avery Sonshal and guards (x4)
○ Tomboldt the Pallid and guards (x5)
○ Githyanki (x6)
● Restoration Pool
○ Haarlep and Imps (x6)
○ Hell Sphere (x2) and Infernal Debtor (x6)
○ Infernal Debtor (x6)
○ Spectator (x2) and Imps (x5)
Leave the camp and before you do your buffs make a quick tour of vendors that sell potions.
That would mean stopping by Mattis, Danthelon's Dancing Axe, Alchemy and Potion Shop
(above previos store), Bonecloak's Apothecary, and Araj Oblodra. At this point I was at four
Elixir of Cloud Giant Strength, so I started using them on Karlach every day from this point on. If
you have at least two, you're safe to start using them, but only on Karlach. If you have any
leftover Hill Giant elixirs, you can use them on Tav but we'll getting something for Tav soon that
will trump those elixirs.
Do your buff routine of Mage Armor on Gale, Aid(tier 5), Elixirs on both Karlach/Tav, Soul Coin on
Karlach, and lastly Shield of Thralls on all your characters. We're going to head back to the
"South Span of Wyrm's Crossing" waypoint and head across the street into "Fraygo's
Flophouse". Go up the stairs and then up the ladder in the room with all the beds. On this top
floor is a hidden door behind the Wardrobe that you can picklock with Karlach. Succeed and use
the Wardrobe to enter a secret room. In here you want to grab the Bloodstained Parchment
sitting on the table. Time to kill some innocent people!
Teleport over to the "Baldur's Gate" waypoint and go directly across the street into the
"Facemaker's Boutique" shop. In the back room will be Figaro "Facemaker" Pennygood. Make

sure the door is closed behind you and kill him. Loot him to pick up the Figaro's Hand item. If the
other NPCs see you and reports you to the guards, just kill them. Everyone here is expendable,
so kill anyone that tries to stop you from looting that hand. After that, teleport over to the "Lower
City Central Wall"waypoint and a man named Olfaith Olumssdottirwill approach you. Chat with
him and he'll say you need to kill one more person. Follow the road east and once you're past the
"Sorcerous Sundries" building, there should be a wine party on a patio to your left. Here will be
our second target - Cora Highberry. Run up and kill her. If you don't outright attack her off the
bat, another assassin will lay claim to our quarry. Try to loot her body to take the Cora's Hand
item. Some people may take issue with this and start a fight or call a guard, just kill anyone that
stands in your way like the other target. The same man from before will approach and give you a
passphrase to a hideout.
From here continue following the path east and once it splits, go north. You should see a marker
up ahead to guide you, but you should find the"Candulhallow's Tombstones" building that the
man gave you the key for. Head into the last room, take the painting to reveal a button, and push
it to reveal a secret door. Interact with it and say thepassphrase to gain entry. Go down the
corridor and enter the Tribunal Antechamber to see a cutscene. Choose the dialogue option that
attacks the dwarf. He does pack a punch, so he may down someone before you take him out. You
can use your firstShort Rest here before going forward. Recover as needed and proceed into the
main room to meet Sarevok Anchev. Play along with this for now:
● You seem to know me. Have we met before?
● What do you mean - vengeance?
● I'll happily challenge her. Where is she?
● Very well, lead on.
● With a smile on my face, and pleasure in my heart.
Follow him into the next room and agree to kill the captive creature:
● It shall play a symphony of screams with its trumpet!
This will grant you the Amulet of Bhaal. Make sure not to lose this as it will come in handy later!
Saverok will go back to his throne, but we aren't done with him. You can attack him however you
want, but you can try leading with a Hold Personspell on Saverok. If it doesn't go through you
won't be forced into combat. You could also use a Chain Lighting on the three blood phantoms in
the lower chairs. Either way, focus down Saverok and either use Psionic Dominance or
Counterspell to make sure the other enemy doesn't succeed in castingSlow as that is a pain to
deal with. If you do land that Hold Person via Shdowheart you could make really short work of
Saverok. Especially if you use the tried and true Twinned Haste combo on Tav/Karlach. He does
have a Legendary Action that allows him to immediately counterattack whoever attacks him first
in a round. Also, each of the echoes will do specific things:
● Echo of Amelyssan - Heals/Sanctuary
● Echo of Illasera - Haste
● Echo of Sendal - Slow
● Echo of Abazigal - Melee attacks
That said, you can ultimately handle this fight however you want as there is also an advantage to
taking down some of the peskier echoes first. Once the fight is over, loot the Sword of Chaos

andSaverok's Horned Helmet off of Saverok and give them both to Tav. The guards outside the
room also have some loot if you'd like it. Once you're back outside, teleport to the "Basilisk Gate"
waypoint and use your second Short Rest. We'll soon be getting to the point where we'll use all
of our remaining explosive barrels at once, but in case you used more than I did, or you missed
some, we can make a pitstop to get a lot of explosives. Travel southwest, following the path as it
goes down. This place can be a bit confusing, so to help we are trying to get to the "Felogyr's
Fireworks" shop, which is directly south of "Sorcerous Sundries". Here's an image of the map to
help:
There are two sets of enemies that we'll be dealing with, first of which is on the ground floor.
Bring your party behind the counter and attack the shop owner,Avery Sonshal. We want
everyone back here to prevent spell attacks from Clerk Tamara above and we want to kill the
shop owner fast to prevent him from setting off all the fireworks on this floor. The two enemies
on the above floor will make their way down to you if you stay in the back behind the counter.
Clerk Tamara still poses a threat on setting off the explosives here, so what I did was use
Knockon Gale to immediately unlock the door leading to the second floor and then have Karlach
obliterate her after she ended her turn in the stairwell. If these explosives do go off, there are still
plenty to get here.
You can save the looting for later, for now go up to the second floor and then creep one
character up to the very top floor. Enough to trigger combat and have them rush back down to
the second floor. We want to avoid fighting on the third floor as it's littered with Smokepowder
Barrels, so it's safer to funnel the enemies down to us. Nothing major to note on this second
group of enemies. From the top floor, start looting and making your way down. Pick up all the
Smokepowder Barrels and Boxes of Fireworks on the first three floors, along with any other
handheld explosives or fireworks. When looting on the ground floor, guards may notice from
outside the windows. If they confront you and run inside, just attack and kill them for some easy
extra experience. On the ground floor you should see ahatch leading to the basement. If the
outside NPCs are barring you from entering due to their sightlines, you can tuck into that alcove,
enter Hide Party mode, and then you'd should be able to enter just fine. Be careful down here as
there's a trip wire in the middle of the room. There's a lever behind some crates opening a side
room which also has a trip wire. Setting off either of these will cause everything down here to
explode. In total, this is the grand haul you can walk away with:
● Basement - 10 Smokepowder Barrels and 11 Boxes of Fireworks (12 if you can get the hard
to reach one)
● First floor - 9 Boxes of Fireworks
● Second Floor - Box of Fireworks
● Third floor - 10 Smokepowder Barrels
We're going to make one more detour before taking the fight to Raphael. Teleport back to the
"Basilisk Gate" waypoint. Travel west down the road to the second building on your right, this
should be the"Elfsong Tavern". If it helps, there should be a quest marker on your map telling

you to investigate the basement. Go inside, go into the kitchen, and down to the basement to
meet a hoard of rats.Have Shadowheart use Spirit Guardians and stack everyone on top of her to
make this super quick. Loot the Firewine Barrels if any survived. There are two doors in the back,
take the one on the left. This should be a narrow room with a button on the wall. Hit it to open a
secret passage in the other room.
Follow this passageway into another room where a group of Githyanki will be searching the
Emperor's hideout here. Enter Hide Party mode and land a surprise attack. On each side you
should see a purple portal. These are being created by the respective Gate Master that is near it.
Focus them first to prevent reinforcements and then whittle down the remaining enemies. Loot
the room and grab some more Firewine Barrels. Go to the back and behind the statue you should
discover a buttonon the wall, opening up another secret passageway. Loot and interact with
everything in this main room until the quest marker goes away. Lastly, go through the next exit in
the side room and this side quest will be complete. This will lead you out to the sewers where
you will be met by someone. Who you see can vary from person to person.
With that, let's take the fight to Raphael who has 666hp and a posse of demons accompanying
him. Unfortunately for him we can set up a massive trap with all of our explosive barrels. We'll do
this today as in his domain there's actually a healing pool that fully heals and regenerates all
spell slots, so don't worry if you're running super low on abilities or spells at this point in the day.
To get to his domain known as the "House of Hope" we first need to teleport to the "Lower City
Central Wall" waypoint. Follow the path north and the first building you see should be "Devil's
Fee". Head inside and speak toHelsik behind the counter. Choose the [Persuasion]option to gain
her assistance at the cost of stealing an item from Raphael (we'll actually be keeping the item for
ourselves). She'll also give you the Gibus of the Worshipful Servant hat after the conversation.
Your choice on using that on Tav or keeping the one you got from killing Saverok.
I also recommend buying the Cloak of the Weavefrom her to give to Shadowheart. Make your way
upstairs to find a ritual circle written in blood. Go into the side room and picklock the Gilded
Chest to get the Mask of Soul Perception, which is a great item for Karlach. Helsik should have
given you aritual pouch that holds all five items needed to open the portal. Starting from the
western arrow pointing at the table, you want to place the items on the following arrow points
going in a clockwise fashion.
● Skull
● Coin of Mammon
● Nothing
● Diamond
● Incense
● Nothing
● Nothing
● Then place the Infernal Marble in the middle
You'll know things have been placed in the proper location if they glow orange and can't be
picked up. Before heading in we want to grab some stuff from camp. We want to grab ALL of our
explosive barrels and put them on one character to smuggle them into Rapahel's domain. In
order to do that, start selecting by holding

and then select every barrel you want with
. Then once you have everything you want highlighted, hit
over one of the selected barrels and send them all to one character.Specifically just all the
barrel-type items. All of the throwable bombs, or grenade type items, DO NOT USE. We are
saving them for a dragon later on. For context, this is what my haul was at this point:
● 22 Boxes of Fireworks
● 3 Brine Barrels
● 30 Firewine Barrels
● 6 Nautiloid Tanks
● 2 Oil Barrels
● 3 Runepowder Barrels
● 37 Smokepowder Barrels
Ideally you'll want to bring an Elixir of Vigilance so we can make sure we go first on Karlach. Also
make sure Karlach has some means of starting a fire. Either with an Alchemist's Fire or from the
Gloves of Cinder and Sizzle that we equipped on her in Act 1. This way we can make sure she
goes first and can set off the barrels. If you for some reason don't have that elixir, this is why we
also got the Alert feat on her as a precaution. Go into the portal and the room where you appear
is actually where Raphael will confront us. Because of that, we can preemptively place all our
barrels to ambush him! Here is a screenshot showing where he'll spawn so you can build around
that.
If you have roughly the same amount of barrels as I do, I recommend having all of the
Runepowder Barrels a bit behind where Raphael spawns as they are our heaviest hitting ones and
could nearly kill your party if you place them too forward. Around where Raphael spawns do a
few layers ofSmokepowder Barrels and on the lower level a few layers of Firewine Barrels. With
the remaining you should have branch towards the two side areas to deal with other enemies that
spawn. Here is a video showing my final placement of things:

Is this overkill? Possibly. Is it going to be rewarding as all hell to blow that smug smirk off
Raphael's face? Yes. Before progressing, double check you have something on Karlach to set off
the barrels along with that Elixir of Vigilance if you were able to obtain one. You can freely leave
this place before kicking the hornets nest, so do so now if needed. Depending on how many
extra guards you had to dealt with throughout today, you may or may not be level 11 at this point.
If you are level 11, here are my recommendations:
Heroes' Feast will be something else we'll do every day, so go ahead and use that on the party
now. When you're ready to proceed, get close to the door and you'll be greeted by Hope, who is
held captive by Raphael. Go through the door and you'll see that there are two exits, one to the
left and right. Go out the right door as that is unlocked. Follow the path as it loops all the way
around to the left, looting as you please. Once you make it to where that left door was, there is a
lever that opens it. Go into the nearby western room to speak to the Archivist.
● I just want to explore the Archive.
● Are there any highlights in the collection?
● I've come for the Hammer.

<<TABLE>>
Tav
  Spellbook: • Warden of Vitality

Karlach
  • Monk Lv 7

Gale
  Spells: • Chain Lightning

Shadowheart
  Spellbook: • Heroes' Feast
<</TABLE>>

● [Intimidation] How about I break bits of you until you change your mind?
If you don't succeed in that check, you can useInvisibility to help pickpocket the Boudoir
Invitationfrom him. With that in hand, go to the northern room that is blocked by a barrier, which
you can now go through. Go into the pool directly ahead of you and interact with the Restoration
Faucet. This will fully replenish your health and all abilities/spell slots. Best part is this can be
used multiple times, so don't be shy about replenishing here as we fight through the demons in
this area. Go towards the back of this room to meet an incubus named Haarlep. Pick the option
to fight him and get ready for an annoying ability.
Whenever Haarlep takes damage he'll become untargetable to attacks until his next turn, so
you'll want to focus your hardest hitting abilities on him. Personally I used a tier 3 Divine Smite
while everyone else dealt with the six Imps that spawn.
Once the fight is over, loot the Key From Raphael's Safe from Haarlep. On the west side of the
back area there will be a button beneath a portrait. Hit it to reveal a safe that has the password
to get theOrphic Hammer as well as five Soul Coins. Top yourself up at the restoration pool.
Across the hallway from the boudoir room is a locked door you have to pass two checks to get
into. Swap to Galeand have him try to open it. If you fail, you'll just get knocked back, but you
can try again so don't waste your Inspiration here. Inside will be a few things, but the notables
ones are the Staff of Spellpower andContract: Mol.
Give that new staff to Gale and replace the Knife of the Undermountain King. Between Gale's
two staves and necklace, he can now use any tier 6 spell three times without burning a spell slot
per Long Rest. Go back to the Archivist and kill him. On two pedestals in this room we can steal
the Amulet of Greater Health and Gauntlets of Hill Giant Strength, give both of which to Tav. The
gloves are what Helsik wants us to give to her, but... we just won't do that and instead will just
keep it for ourselves. It's not really worth giving Tav any strength based elixirs anymore because
of these gloves. Lastly go up to the Orphic Hammer and speak the magic words to obtain it. Walk
out to find the first set of enemies - aHell Sphere and a Debtor. The Sphere is tanky, but you can
chip away at it. Meanwhile when the Debtordies it will transform into another enemy, so don't let
that catch you off guard. Follow the hallway northward to run into a another small group of
enemies.
Start following the hallway east fighting pastdebtors and another hell Sphere. Once you're at the
end of the hallway turn your attention to the central room where a group of six enemies will await
you. There's a handful of imps and debtors, nothing to be too concerned about. DO NOT GO
BACK TO THE VERY FIRST ROOM YET. You could trigger theRaphael fight prematurely. Quickly
stop by the boudoir to heal yourself back up and go into the eastern end of the main hallway
once more. Here you should see a hatch leading down to the prison.
In the next room down here is where Hope has been imprisoned, but she is guarded by two
Spectatorsand some Imps. The imps are actually the biggest threat as this jail is made up of
several platforms and the imps use Eldrtich Blast, which has a knock back. Meaning with one
attack someone in your party could get knocked off to their death. I recommend entering Hide
Party mode and when there's an opening, have someone jump to the middle platform. Then
quickly enter Turn-Based mode to land a surprise attack on one of the imps. Focus as many of

them down as possible. To help I recommend focusing on the ones earlier in the turn order and
worst case you can use a Counterspell to negate an Eldritch Blast attack if you aren't able to kill
them all fast enough. Deal with the spectators next and to free Hope you need to break the two
crystals she is linked to. Have Tav break them with the Orphic Hammer equipped. After Hope is
freed, swap back to your actual weapon. Head back upstairs and make one last pitstop at the
healing baths. Make your way back to the room with the portal, but don't interact with the portal
just yet. Take control of Karlach and have the rest of the party wait just inside the room near the
door.
I highly recommend forcing a cloud save before starting this fight. Due to some RNG elements of
the explosion damage, your results may vary when you set off this trap. It's perfectly fine if
Raphael survives. But if you barrel placement different from mine, especially with
theRunepowder Barrels, you may accidentally kill your party. Better to be safe than sorry at this
point.
Karlach has the best chance of starting first, so let's have her interact with the portal to get
Raphael to appear. Interact with the portal, get to safety, and let the explosions fly. Chances are
Raphael may live with some health and the other enemies may survive as well, but since we're
fully rested up you should be able to mop things up without too much of a hassle. After the fight
Hope will give you the Gloves of Soul Catching that you can give to Karlach and looting Raphael's
body will give you the Helldusk Armor that you can give to Shadowheart. Leave through the
portal to get back to the Devil's Fee. The Emperor won't be thrilled with us getting the hammer,
so make these dialogue choices:
● I do trust you. I just like to have insurance.
● I promise I won't use the hammer.
Even though we probably could do more, travel to the South Span of Wyrm's Crossing waypoint.
Once there, let's end the day with the Long Rest. The main reason why I recommended moving
away was so you don't accidentally walk downstairs and talk to Helsik, potentially losing Tav's
gloves. You may or may not have a night event. If you do, it is likely another one with the
Emperor.
Day 14
Here are the plans for today. A shorter day, only taking on Gortash and paving the way to
confront Orin.
● Morning Buffs
○ Guild thugs (x6)
○ Gortash and guards (x4)
● Short Rest
○ Flaming Fist Quartermaster and guards (x4)
○ Blaze Savora and Flaming Fist guards (x7)
● Short Rest
○ Farslayer of Bhaal Ghislev

You really want to save your "Luck of the Far Realm" attacks for when you're directly attacking
Gortash later today. The sooner that fight is over, the better.
Leave the camp and do another potion pass on the same vendors that we did at the start of Day
14. Taking what we learned yesterday, do your buff routine of Mage Armor on Gale, Heroe's Feast
andAid (tier 5), Elixir of Cloud Giant Strength on Karlach, Soul Coin on Karlach, and lastly Shield
of Thralls on all your characters. Teleport over to the"Basilisk Gate" waypoint and start to head
down to "Felogyr's Fireworks" once more. Right before the last bit of stairs leading down to the
shop, instead head east and down to find a Orc named Tusgront. Speak to him and pick a fight.
This is just a group of six standard criminal type enemies, so just focus them down one by one.
Loot the Guild Ring from Tusgront and insert it into the nearby wall slot to reveal a hidden
entrance. Go inside and follow the path. After you go up and down some stairs, Mol should be
right in front of you before you turn the corner. I recommend checking what she's selling as she
may have anElixir of Cloud Giant Strength for you to buy. Speak to Mol and make the following
dialogue choices. Wedon't want her to know that Raphael is dead, so don't mention that at all:
● I found this contract you signed with Raphael, Mol. Do you want it?
● Is this how you survived the shadowlands? A deal with Raphael?
● I'm impressed. You saw an opportunity for power and you took it.
● [Persuasion] Make sure we're all on the winning team. There's a fight for the city's survival
coming, and I'll need your help.
It's time to deal with Gortash. Travel to the "South Span of Wyrm's Crossing" waypoint and go
back to where you flew across the ravine. Instead of going right, go left this time. After you round
the corner go up the ladder and vines to make it to a side portion of the fortress. Break down or
picklock through this first door to be in a side room right next to the throne. In this throne room
are some enemies that we don't want to get into a fight with. I recommend reading the next few
portions and watching the videos to understand how we'll be pulling off this segment.
To get around this room you can do the following. Move the entire party to the northern part of
the side room that you're in. Enter Turn-Based mode, swap to Karlach, and use an Invisibility
Potion on her. Have her go through the door to the throne room (door leading east) and have her
immediately go north to find another door. You'll likely have to use your Dash ability, but open
that door and click on the stairs to move up to the roof. Since the party is still grouped together,
everyone else should appear up here with you. Here's a video showing the method:

Stick along the outer wall to avoid floor traps in the middle of the path. If you want to be safe,
stay inTurn-Based mode and control everyone individually. You want to make it to the eastern
edge of the roof where you'll be standing next to some stone blocks, with a door to the upper
keep being right in front of you. This right here is actually where we'll fight Gortash, but we have
to lure him out here. Split Karlach off from the party and have Gale use the Twinned Haste combo
on her and Tav. Then swap to Karlach and run into the keep via the nearby doorway. Stick to the
middle of the path and go up to the second room until you enter combat. Immediately swap to
your group of three and put them into Turn-Based mode. This way the Haste buff won't run out
on Tav while you do the kiting.
Do a 180 on Karlach and run back to the doorway leading outside, not going too far out of it until
Gortash catches up. If you get too far ahead of him it could take you out of combat. Gortash and
his guards will give chase. Fire off a ranged attack or two if your Karlach has a bow or can borrow
Tav's.You don't want to use your spear here or any other AoE type damage as it could interact
with the traps. Once Gortash has been kited back to the group, let the attacks fly. Solely focus
on killing him as soon as possible. Use your hardest hitting single targetattacks and cash in your
"Luck of the Far Realm"critical hits. As soon as Gortash is dead, the remaining guards will be
easy to take care of.

Now with that out of the way, loot Gortash's body to progress the story. Go inside his personal
chamber for some loot. Most notably is in the back right corner will be a Gilded Chest that has
Helldusk Boots that you can give to Tav. Now would be a good time to use your first Short Rest.
Once you're done here you can now teleport to the "Wyrm's Rock" waypoint (this previously got
blocked off when we blew up the factory). You'll be immediately thrown into combat with the
Flaming Fist Quartermaster and four guards. Easy work at this point. There is a bunch of loot in
the armory behind the counters if you want some extra gold for later. Go out into the hallway to
get into another fight. There will initially be a group of four guards, but as you make your way
north another group of four from the barracks room will join the fray. Take care of them and go
across the drawbridge leading north to find Mizora.
Speak to her and choose what you want. She'll mention seeing you at camp, setting up a night
event for us. After this we can start going down the path of confronting Orin without actually
fighting her yet. Teleport to the "Baldur's Gate" waypoint and walk down the street eastward to a
manhole cover to enter the sewers. There are several entrances to this, but here is a screenshot
of where we want to go:
Follow the path to the west and when you see a wooden bridge to the south, enter it to trigger a
cutscene if you haven't gotten put into it yet. Resolve it with the [Intimidation] option and this

should put you at level 12, which is the max level for the game.
After that, go through the door to the north. Continue in this direction and you'll see
the"Undercity Ruins" waypoint. Before proceeding, just in case things get messy ahead, use your
secondShort Rest. Next to that is a door you can interact with. Choose whatever options you
want and progress forward. Next up is a really dangerous ambush point. A lot of blood phantoms
will appear as you traverse the area that fire off many ranged attacks. On top of that, if the main
enemy isn't interrupted, it will complete a ritual that instantly kills some of your party. To safely
defuse this, we are going to do something simple. Use two Potions of Invisibility, one on Tav and
one on Karlach. Also use the Twinned Haste combo on them. Enter Turn-Based Mode and we'll
send Tav/Karlach up to the main enemy while everyone else stays back. I recommend reading the
next paragraph and watching the video as this encounter could turn sour very fast.
Have both Karlach and Tav go across the stone pillar that acts as a bridge. Meanwhile don't let
Gale or Shadowheart leave the wall cover yet as that will trigger the ambush. Have either Tav or
Karlach go up the ladder right after the bridge and then up another one, but keep the other on
the ground a bit after the bridge. Whoever you sent up the ladder will be next to Farslayer of
Bhaal Ghislev, but don't attack yet. Have Gale or Shadowheart now walk out to trigger the
ambush and swap back to Karlach/Tav to put them back into Turn-Based mode. With whoever
you sent up, now attack the Farslayer. You have to get through five stacks of Unstoppable, which
means they can soak five attacks before they start to take full damage. The reason why we split

<<TABLE>>
Tav
  Feat: • Ability Improvement • Charisma +2
  Spellbook: • Whatever you want

Karlach
  • Monk Level 8
  Feat: • Ability Improvement • Dexterity +2

Gale
  Spells: • Disintegrate
  Remove: • Knock Add: • Blight
  Feat: • Spell Sniper • Eldritch Blast

Shadowheart
  Feat: • Spell Sniper • Eldritch Blast
  Spellbook: • Planar Ally
<</TABLE>>

up Karlach and Tav is because down where we left the other character is where this enemy can
potentially teleport to. As soon as the Farslayer dies all the other blood phantoms will start to
despawn. This is a much easier method to getting past this ambush. To help, here is a video
showing the strategy:
Go through the door to enter the next area which is a giant cavern. Follow the stairs downward as
you head east and you may set off a few traps, which is perfectly fine. Once you reach a long
bridge, you'll find yet another waypoint - "Temple of Bhaal". As we're about to end the day, you
can traverse the bridge and get rid of all the traps so you don't set them off later.
DON'T GO INTO THE ROOM AFTER THE BRIDGE. That's where Orin's fight is located and we
don't want to deal with her yet.
Go ahead and use your Long Rest. Upon getting to camp you'll immediately be thrown into a
cutscene to determine the fate of Wyll's soul. This guide will follow the route of having him keep
his soul.
● Just what are you up to?
● What are you proposing?
● Break the pact, Wyll. You deserve your freedom.

After that, Mizora will remain in the camp. She can be found next to Wyll, go over and speak to
her to set something up for the final fight:
● Wyll's not a child. You need to start treating him with respect.
● If you're going to be staying, I need something in return.
● Leave.
You're free to go to sleep now. If you have Jaheira in your camp, she'll confront you. Choices
don't matter. If not that, then you may be confronted byvampire spawn trying to take Astarion
away if he's still around. Deal with that however you want.
Day 15
Here are the plans for today. It'll be rather short as all we'll be doing is fighting Ansur to get some
final gear upgrades.
● Morning Buffs
○ Fallen Champion and Undead (x16)
● Short Rest
○ Ansur
We're getting close to the end of the game! The remaining days will be on the short side. Leave
camp, but make sure it's back to that Rivington/South Span area. Going deeper into the city
could cause a cutscene we don't want to happen yet. Being level 12 we can do an altered buff
routine to take full advantage of the tier 6 spells Shadowheart has. In this order you want
Shadowheart to use Planar Ally: Deva, Freecast +Heroes' Feast, and then Aid (tier 5). This will
give you an ally to fight alongside you for the whole day that also gets buffed by those two
support spells. This also works on "Us" if you did the right things to save it. Do the rest of your
buffs with Mage Armoron Gale and an Elixir of Cloud Giant Strength/Soul Coin on Karlach.
Now to trigger the cutscene that we didn't want to blindly walk into. First split off Tav from the
party and take control of Gale. We're leaving Tav behind so the game doesn't override our
selection and make Tav be the talker. We want to take advantage of Gale's History proficiency.
Head over to the"Lower City Central Wall" waypoint and walk towards "Socerous Sundries". You
should be confronted by Florrick. It's okay to burn your Inspiration here if need be, as we'd like
to maintain her as an end-fight ally:
● [History] A relevant thread of knowledge pokes at your mind. Explore it.
● Zariel's stunt destroyed countless lives. Mizora is her minions - you can't trust her.
● A wyrm? Are you saying there's a dragon living under the city?
● Your faith is well-founded. I will take your message to Wyll.
Now you're safe to bring Tav on over. Do your vendor pass and make sure to bring all of
yourDragonslayer Arrows if you have any and at least one Scroll of Globe of Invulnerability. That
scroll will be very helpful in preventing a full party wipe if things go bad. One of the two vendors
in"Sorcerous Sundries" should have one if you're missing it. Once you're ready to fight a
dragon, head over to the "Wyrm's Rock" waypoint. Take the stairs down back into the prison and
when you can, go into the dead end on the left. Here you'll see twodragon shaped torches
facing one another. Have Gale use his Shocking Grasp on them, which will turn them blue and
reveal a hidden passage.

Follow the path and enter the next area through the doorway. You'll soon get to a door guarded
by a statue. Tell it that you're worthy and you can go on through. Up ahead will be a set of trials
we need to pass to progress forward, but we're aren't going to do that. If you fail a trial, while it
will spawn a horde of undead, the door barring your way will still open. Take the eastern path and
it will lead you up to a statue telling you to take a torch. Have the whole group start to run back
to the central area and once the torchbearer gets close to the exit, the trial will fail. This will
spawn a group of weak undeadimmediately around you with a Fallen Champion in the center.
Take care of these immediate enemies and as you get to the middle another batch of eight
undead will spawn. You can either kill them and the other ones that notice you from the adjacent
room, or you can just have everyone dash towards the exit that leads to the next area. Once
everyone is in the next room, regroup the party, use a Short Rest, and have Karlach picklock the
door ahead of you.
There won't be any other planned encounters for today, so don't be stingy with your attacks.
This dragon is resistant to Lighting attacks, so be mindful of that when attacking on Gale.
Looting the dragon's corpse will start the fight, so hold off on doing that. Have Gale use the
Twinned Haste combo on Karlach and Tav and do whatever other preparations you want.
Be mindful of Ansur's Legendary Action - Draconic Fury. This will let him counterattack with a
lightning breath on whoever first attacks it that round, so whoever attacks first try to get them
angled away from the party.
Loot the body when you're good to start. A cutscene will play and your dialogue choices don't
matter. With as buffed as the party is, you should be able to tear through his health. If things get
dicey though, have Shadowheart focus on healing or use a Scroll of Globe of Invulnerability to
grant some temporary shelter. If Ansur starts to fly in the air and charge up a lighting attack, that
is your do or die moment. Either kill him that turn or use the aforementioned Scroll of Globe of
Invulnerability to protect your party.
Once the dragon is dead, there may be a lingering elemental that you have to deal with. Loot
Ansur for the incredible Balduran's Giantslayer sword and give it to Tav. In the back of the room is
an altar with theHelm of Balduran, give that to Shadowheart. Picking up the helm will open up a
shortcut that will lead you back to the beginning of this area. The path back may look closed off,
but as you near it the rock wall will disperse. Leave the prison and you're in the clear to Long
Rest. You may or may not get a night event, but at this point none of them are relevant to our
remaining goals, so handle them however you see fit.
Day 16
This is the second to last day! We'll just be dealing with Orin and doing a final check before
passing the point of no return for the finale of the game.
● Morning Buffs
○ Orin and Bhaal Cultists (x8)

Before we actually go underway I think it would be prudent to do a bit of a status check as we'll
soon be hitting the point of no return. I want to go over the required and recommended
consumables items to have, as well as a comparison of my own inventory at this point. I'll break
this down into necessary items, explosive count, and scroll count. The explosive and scrolls
being very relevant to two boss fights.
Necessary items:
● Potions of Invisibility (at least x2)
● Elixirs of Cloud Giant Strength (at least x2)
● Elixir of Vigilance (x1)
● Orphic Hammer
Of course having more potions and elixirs wouldn't hurt as this is the final stretch of the game,
but these are the bare minimum for our upcoming strategies. Next up we have the handheld
explosives. These are specifically relevant towards the second dragon that we will be fighting.
This will be explained more later, but the gist of it is we'll take all of these explosives on Karlach,
have her drop them at the foot of the dragon, run away, and blown them up with a meteor strike.
The goal being we one shot the dragon so we can focus on the surrounding enemies. By no
means do you need this many as it is very likely overkill. The dragon's HP threshold is 520 on
Honor mode. You can ballpark how much damage your explosives could do with some damage
variance and assumed resistance. I broke down the explosives into the likely largest sources of
your damage if you kept up with buying/looting them, more obscure ones you may have, and
things that might add to damage when blown up via this method, but I'm not 100% certain.
Vial x1
• Sanguine
Explosive x2
• Smokepowder
Satchel x1
• Spiked Bulb x2
• Void Bulb x7

<<TABLE>>
Handheld explosives
Main sources of damage:
Optional inclusions if you have them:
Unsure how, but brought them anyway:
• Popdrakes x26 • Squidjins x28 • Wogglims x31 • Acid Vial x51 • Smokepowder Bomb x73 • Holy Water x 43 • Runepowder Bomb x1 • Runepowder Vial x1
• Brilliant Retort x1 • Caustic Bulb x5 • Flammable Slime Bomb x2 • Poisonous Slime Bomb x3 • Fungal Bamboozler x2 • Hearthlight Bomb x3 • Runepowder Bomb x1 • Runepowder Vial x1 • Sanguine Explosive x2 • Smokepowder Satchel x1 • Spiked Bulb x2 • Void Bulb x7
• Purple Worm Toxin x7 • Serpent Fang Toxin x7 • Wyvern Toxin x15 • Arrow of Acid x19 • Smokepowder Arrow x14
<</TABLE>>

• Brilliant Retort x1 • Purple Worm Toxin
• Caustic Bulb x7
x5 • Serpent Fang
• Flammable Toxin x7
Slime Bomb x2 • Wyvern Toxin
• Poisonous x15
Slime Bomb x3 • Arrow of Acid
• Fungal x19
Bamboozler x2 • Smokepowder
• Hearthlight Arrow x14
Bomb x3
Vial x1 • Runepowder
Bomb x1
• Runepowder
Vial x1
• Sanguine
Explosive x2
• Smokepowder
Satchel x1
• Spiked Bulb x2
• Void Bulb x7
Next up we have our lists of scrolls. This is relevant to the very final boss, the Elder brain. On
Honor Mode it has a specific mechanic where it will become immune to damage types that
attacked it in the turn prior. If we stock up on various damage scrolls though, every character can
still attack even if their main damage type is currently ineffective. Like the above caveat, this is
very much overkill, but at this point you can liquidate all your gold so there's no harm in being
over prepared. You should aim to have as many spell types as possible (Force, Lighting, Fire,
ect.) If possible, having two Scrolls of Haste for the final back to back fight would be fantastic,
but it's not absolutely necessary. Scrolls of Mirror Image and Scrolls of Globe of Invulnerability
are there as a safety precaution in case of an emergencies to help you recover.
• Sunbeam x4 (Radiant)
• Conjure Elemental x4

<<TABLE>>
Scrolls
Offensive spells
Buff/Defensive
• Artistry of War x1 (Force) • Disintergrate x4 (Force) • Blight x4 (Necrotic) • Circle of Death x10(Necrotic) • Chain Lightning x16 (Lightning) • Lightning Bolt(Lightning) • Cloudkill x1 (Poison) • Cone of Cold x3 (Ice) • Ice Storm x4 (Ice) • Otiluke's Freezing Sphere x5 (Ice) • Wall of Ice x3 (Ice) • Fireball x5 (Fire) • Sunbeam x4 (Radiant) • Conjure Elemental x4
• Globe of Invulnerability x5 • Haste x3 • Mirror Image x7
<</TABLE>>

• Globe of Invulnerability x5
• Haste x3
• Mirror Image x7
x5 (Ice)
• Wall of Ice x3 (Ice)
• Fireball x5 (Fire)
• Sunbeam x4 (Radiant)
• Conjure Elemental x4
With that all covered, let's take this fight to Orin. Teleport to the "Temple of Bhaal" waypoint and
do your buff routine. Use Planar Ally: Deva, Freecast + Heroes' Feast, Aid (tier 5), Mage Armor
on Gale and an Elixir of Cloud Giant Strength/Soul Coin on Karlach. Make your way across the
bridge and your little servant will open the way. Down below you'll see Orin in the middle of a
ritual involving the companion that she took hostage. There is an achievement here related to the
fight that you want to be mindful of.
For us to successfully get the Bhaal ending, Tav can't be downed at all. The reason for this is
Orin wants to do a 1v1, but Bhaal only cares about who wins, not about the 1v1 element. Because
of that we can trigger the fight outside of the scripted cutscene and not void anything as long as
Tav isn't "defeated".
Enter Hide Party mode and walk partially down the stairs. Split your party up into two groups -
Tav/Shadowheart and Karlach/Gale. Tav and Shadowheart will get close to the detection range
and serve as a shield of sorts. Have Gale use theTwinned Haste combo on Tav/Karlach. You'll also
want to use the Elixir of Vigilance on Gale specifically to increase his Initiative. Orin will have12
stacks of Unstoppable and it recovers every turn. Similar to the blood phantom you fought prior,
this means is she needs to be attacked that many times until she can be really be damaged. The
natural enemy to Unstoppable stacks is Magic Missile, as every missile hit eats a stack of that
buff. Gale's Metamagic: Quickened Magic comes in very handy here. This will allow him to fire off
two back to back tier 4 or higher Magic Missile attacks, leaving Orin is wide open to Karlach and
Tav. This is why we want to get Gale as high up the turn order as possible. Orin also has a pounce
attack that can leave your party prone, which is why we left Tav/Shadowheart to be the shield to
hopefully soak that as we don't want Gale's concentration to be broken. Here is a video showing
the setup and killing of Orin:

Once you're ready, have Shadowheart fire off a ranged attack to lure Orin over to the group.
Hopefully Gale is near the top of the turn order so he can use Magic Missile, but if not adjust as
needed. With Haste on both Karlach and Tav, along with everyone having their "Luck of the Far
Realms"critical hit stored up, you should be able to melt through Orin. After she's dead, you now
have to deal with her cultists. They'll resort to ranged attacks with one trying to cast Slow, so
keepCounterspelling that. The cultists will spawn withSanctuary, so you can't target them until
they attack. After that, they're likely to make themselvesinvisible after attacking. We have a few
options to tackle this. In either case, they won't move from their spots and can be damaged by
area attacks likeFireball or Chain Lighting. You could use Blackholeto group a lot of them closer
together and use an area attack. The Chain Lighting arc will also hit invisible enemies. Either way,
deal with them however you want.
Upon looting Orin's body (just a pile of flesh) a cutscene will trigger. Here will be the first of the
two Dark Urge specific achievements. Make sure to pick the following choice:
● I accept your gift, Lord Bhaal.
Embrace Your Urge
Became Bhaal's ultimate weapon - became his Slayer.

1 guide
Make your way back outside to the waypoint and you may be met by some familiar faces. If
Jaheirafollowed you into Act 3, then she and a group ofHarpers will ambush you. Funny enough
if you never leveled her up, she'll be only Level 1. Launch a surprise attack of your own and mop
the floor with them. Start to make your way up the stairs. When you can, take a entrance to the
north, leading you to the final portion of the game. There's also a marker on your map to help
guide you. Once you get near a bunch of rats and are can enter a boat, this is truly the point of
no return. PAUSE AND READ.
Depending on what you used, you may have expended utilities that only recharge after a long
rest. While our spell slots will regenerate similar to the healing pool in the House of Hope, not
everything will be regenerated. Go ahead and quickly Long Rest here to fully freshen your party
up. The reason why we did this here and you were prompted to do all your shopping before
confronting Orin is now that both her and Gortash are dead, the Elder Brain will start
transforming people in Baldur's Gate into Illithids. Just a whole mess we don't really need to deal
with. So Long Rest and see you in the final day.
Day 17
This is the final day! Get ready to fight a dragon, some mind flayers, and the elder brain.
● BEFORE morning buffs
○ Intellect Devourers (x22)
● AFTER morning buffs
○ Dominated Red Dragon, The Emperor, Dream Guardian (x4), and Mind Flayer (x4)
○ Elder Brain

Leave camp and DO NOT DO ANY BUFFING. They'll disappear after just one encounter with
Intellect Devourers. We want to wait until we get to the final section of the city. If you have an
more than one elixir for Karlach, use that and that is it. Do one final check that your party has
everything they need:
● You have the potions and elixirs that you want.
● Someone is holding all of the spell scrolls.
● Tav has the Orphic Hammer.
● Karlach is holding onto all of the handheld explosives that you'll be dropping near the
dragon.
Once you're all set, interact with the boat and let the cutscene play. Once you get to shore,
follow the path north. Once you get to a place with some small green pools you'll be ambushed
by around twenty or so Intellect Devourers. They'll come in waves, but they don't pose any
threat at all, especially with Shadowheart's Spirit Guardians. Follow the path and eventually you'll
confront the Elder Brain. There will be aa series of dialogue skill checks, but they don't really
matter. If you managed to succeed one, then when you actually fight the Elder Brain it will be
slightly weakened. Definitely not worth burning an Inspiration over though. You'll soo get swept
away to the Astral Plane. Follow the path until you get to where The Emperor and Orpheus are.
This is where things may get a little awkward as we're actually going to betray the Emperor and
free Orpheus. Mostly so it's easy to keep Kithrak Voss on our side. Make these dialogue choices:
● There is another way, we will free Orpheus.
● Enough. I have the Hammer - I will free Orpheus.
Equip the Orphic Hammer and attack the red crystals like you did when freeing Hope. Now
another dialogue sequence will play and we want to turn ourselves into a Mind Flayer:
● Well met, Your Majesty.
● I had no choice. Without your powers, I would have died.
● While we bicker, the Netherbrain is executing the Grand Design. We need to stop it.
● I understand. If that's what it takes, I'll do it.
● This is my sacrifice to make. Not yours.
● No, Karlach. This is for me to do. I'll embrace the parasite - I'll evolve.
Go through the portal to be brought to the final section of the city. Here is the time for you to
properly buff up. Use Planar Ally: Deva, Freecast + Heroes' Feast, Aid (tier 5), Mage Armor on
Gale and an Elixir of Cloud Giant Strength/Soul Coin on Karlach. Use whatever extra elixirs on
your other party members if you'd like. Since I had these on hand I used an Elixir of Peerless
Wisdom on Tav, an Elixir of Battlemage's Prowess on Gale, and lastly anElixir of Heroism on
Shadowheart. These aren't necessary at all, but I used them for the sake of having an elixir on
everyone.
Start following the path and soon enough Kithrak Voss will appear before you. This is why we
sided with Orpheus as we'd either have to pass a DC 30 roll without him or fight Kithrak himself.
Better to have him on our side than against us as you'll see when we use his ability later.
Continue forward until you come to a little inn-type building where a cutscene will happen. Here
will be the rallying cry where all of the allies you've made will come to your aid. This will be either
in the form of a summonable companion to aid you in battle, permanent status buff, or a heavy
hitting attack. Speaking of which, there is a very important disclaimer. If you followed this guide

and everything worked out, this should be your spread of benefits for the upcoming fight.
Zevlor's presence will be dependent on if you didn't kill him in Act 2.
There is also a vendor here named Koll the Red for you to grab any last goodies that you want.
Head out the back door and climb up some stairs leading east. A short cutscene will play and
you'll spot one of those glowing blue Illithid restoration stationsnearby. Interact with it to get
back the spell slots Shadowheart used to buff the party. Up ahead you'll see an entryway into a
large courtyard, this is where a lot of fighting happens. Coincidentally we can just stroll on by
with one character, which is why someInvisibility Potions were a necessity to bring.
Split Karlach off of the group and make her invisible. Starting running east, past all the enemies.
You'll eventually reach a large door you can go through. The path will bend north and as you go
up some stairs you'll be thrown into Turn-Based mode as an artillery ship starts to bombard the
area. End your turn near the door, do not try interacting with it until your next turn. Picklock the
door and doing so will remove your invisibility, putting you into combat with this group of
enemies. Just use another Invisibility Potion and Dash past them. Avoid ending your turn in any
glowing circles on the ground as that's where artillery strikes will land. You may get discovered
still, but just focus on reaching the top of this section. Once you get to the door and make it
through, you're in the clear. Here is a video showing this strategy:

<<TABLE>>
Summonable Allies
Attacks/Heals
Characters that provide buffs:
• Mizora • Aylin • Strange Ox • Zevlor • Florrick(3 defensive soldiers) • Barcus(2 Ironhand Gnomes )
• 10d6 Fire + 10d6 Force damage meteor strike(Rolan) • 12d6 Fire damage in a targeted line attack(Kithrak Voss) • Heal 14d6 up to 6 allies(Isobel)
• +2 to Attack Rolls, Saving Throws and Ability Checks(Volo) • Freedom of Movement spell on all characters(Arabella) • Gain +1d4 to Charisma checks and Saving Throws(Mol)
<</TABLE>>

Karlach will be alone in this room, but that is perfectly fine. Interacting with the "Brain Stem"
willtake you up to the boss area and conveniently even though the rest of our party is way back
at the start, they get brought with us. BEFORE PROGRESSING, PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING
NOTE.
Take stock of the explosives you brought. Up above there is a Dominated Red Dragonstanding in
your way and on Honor mode it has a whopping 520hp with some damage resistance. You can
do two different here things that impacts how many end game runs you do.
Safe Route - Have Gale blow up the Elder Brain
You can have Gale blow himself up with the Elder Brain and this WILL still count for your Honor
mode and Tactician achievements, but we'd still need to come back up here for the Bhaal ending.
You'd have to reload your cloud save, get back up to this point, fight through everything, and
then pick the Bhaal ending. Choice is yours, but here are the options if you want to go the
explosion route:
● Wait. We could end this now if you unleashed the orb.
● [Persuasion] We did, but look at the devastation around us. You need to end this now.
● I know you won't. I trust you.
● Goodbye, Gale.
Time efficient route - Fight the Dragon and Elder Brain on Honor Mode

Instead of blowing Gale up, if you're confident you can kill the dragon (either with the explosives
you have or just natural gameplay), choose this dialogue to save you some time on not having to
re-run the length of the game from your cloud save point to this point.
● I'm ready. Let's get you that crown.
If you chose you blow up Gale, repeat whatever you need to. If you chose the time efficient
option, carry on. Once you're in the final arena at the top of the tower, take Karlach and use her
Step of the Wind: Disengage ability. Jump as from where you're standing to land near the
dragon. This will spawn several tentacles from the ground. This will happen all over the brain
matter floor and walking past them causes them to attempt to grapple you. Fortunately since we
used Karlach's disengage ability, we don't need to worry about that with her while we do this
strategy. Go into your inventory and highlight all thebombs and consumables that you want to
drop on the floor to blow up. Holding
until it highlights an item and then using
will allow you to select everything that you want. Then over a selected item, hit
and choose the "Place in the World" option to allow you to drop all these items at once. Have
Karlach jump away to the nearby ledge path and hold
to pull up the "Call Forth Allies" menu. We want to use "Rolan's Firestorm" and highlight the
bombs, dragon, and if possible The Emperor as well. Don't worry, this is an artillery strike and
Rolanwon't appear here at all. Depending on the explosive payload you very well could one-shot
the dragon. Here is a video showing the strategy:

This should also take care of The Emperor and a majority of the Dream Guardians. At this point
have Gale use Twinned Haste on himself and Tav. If you have additional Scrolls of Haste, have
Shadowheart and Karlach use them on themselves. The reason why we didn't do this before is
because that "bomb the dragon" strategy could damage your party depending on placement,
potentially immediately breaking your concentration. Time to assess what you have left in this
arena. If the dragon or Emperor survived, you can call in your heavy hitting summons to deal with
them. That being the Dame Aylin, Battle-Ready Owlbear, Mizora, and Zlorb (aka Strange Ox")
summons. Zlorb can transform into multiple creatures. My personal favorite is theMinotaur form.
You should notice two side platforms that lead up to the Elder Brain's crown, our goal is to get
up there. You'll see that there are two sets of Mind Flayers, one on the left and one on the right.
Get a character within ranged and you can use the "Kith'raki Inferno" summon to lay down a line
of fire across one of these sets of two. For the other set I recommend calling in the smaller NPCs
as they can navigate the ledge platform better. Between the"Florrick's Cohorts" and "Ironhand
Grenadiers" you should be able to deal with them with a quick attack or two from your other
characters. They may run off and do something super random though, their AI isn't the best.
Fight your way up to the top and have Tav use a new ability on the crown - Karsus' Compulsion.
This will be a channeled ability and you need to protect Tav from any interruptions until their next
turn. Depending on how long this process takes you, andIllithid ship may appear to bombard the
area and bring in reinforcements. Once the channeling is over a portal will open and Tav will be
brought into an astral plane to fight the elder brain.

I recommend not attacking the brain until the very start of the turn order. The Honor Mode
mechanic for this enemy is that it becomes immune to all damage types that hurt it in the
previous turn. This is why we stocked up on various elemental scrolls.
Whoever attacks the brain first each turn will get stunned as a reaction, so be mindful of who
attacks first. Letting Orpheus be the sacrificial lamb would be ideal if your turn order allows it.
The brain will also spawn these floating white clusters that will destroy nearby platforms on
their next turn. You can tell which platforms are being targeted as they'll have a slight red
highlight/glow to them. All said and done the brain really doesn't pose much of a threat at this
point as long as you're mindful where you're standing.
When the final blow is dealt to the Elder Brainyou'll have one of two choices. You want to choose
the Bhaal supportive option:
● Claim the Absolute in the name of Bhaal.
Once you make the Bhaal choice and the credits roll, you should have your last three
achievements!
Sins of the Father
Claimed your Throne of Blood: take control of the Netherbrain for Bhaal and
break the world.
1 guide
Critical Hit
Complete the game in Tactician mode.

Foehammer
Completed the game in Honour mode.
2 guides
That's a wrap for this 100% achievement walkthrough of Baldur's Gate 3. A lot of time has gone
into this walkthrough, so I hope it served you well!
